If you've ever had fantasies about being a bronzed barbarian warrior like Conan, travelling the lands to defeat your foes with a swift blow from your enormous weapon, then here's your chance to make them come true. Ankoku Densetsu is a platform hack and slash game, much in the vein of Rastan. You travel through various dark and gloomy settings, chopping the heads of green maggot-spitting zombies, skeleton warriors and other denizens of the evil realms that no self respecting barbarian could ignore.

There are several types of weapons to collect - the sword is standard, the axe is quite powerful but short range, and the long chain weapon is less powerful but very useful at taking out the baddies at a distance. With the relevant power capsules, each weapon can be powered up several levels to inflict more damage. You also get a pretty little fairy star that you throw out in front of you to viciously incinerate all who dare oppose your will. While there is plenty of hacking action, there is also a platform element, with you having to navigate your way up a waterfall on falling blocks, and find your way out of an area with skull platforms that drop out from beneath your feet.

COMMENT:

This is probably the closest thing to Rastan (the original, not the awful Rastan II) that you can get on the PC Engine. Graphically, the game is a mixed bag. The general atmosphere is well crafted, with dark, gloomy scenery, although lacking in imagination. The sprites and animation are poorer than I would have hoped for. There's something not right about the shading which makes your main character in particular look a little amateurish, and the walk cycle when holding the chain weapon, for example, just looks stupid.

Some of the bosses are well done though and there are a few neat touches like the parallax scrolling on one of the later levels. Audio is excellent - it sounds just like an extension of Dungeon Explorer and sets the mood very well indeed. With a little more work (and maybe a little more ROM on the HuCard) this could have been a stunning game. As it stands, while the visuals are variable, it still holds up as a highly enjoyable action platformer and well worth putting some time into.

HINTS:

- extra credits -
when GAME OVER appears, hold II + RUN and keep tapping LEFT.

http://www.pcengine.co.uk/HTML_Games/Ankoku_Densetsu.htm
The Axe is back... with twice the force and twice the fury of 1989's "Videogame of the Year"! This time it's brother against brother locked in deadly combat. Your older brother has summoned unspeakable forces of evil to take control of the kingdom. Treachery rules! Your only hope is the legendary royal sword! But will its power be enough to overcome the Cliffs of Chaos? The Skull Dungeons? And the treacherous Crypts of Slime? Only your courage, your fighting skill, and the Legendary Axe can answer!

This game has you fighting monsters through seven stages with just a sword, but three other weapons can be picked up along the way, and include axes, chain spears, and smart bombs. These weapons can only be obtained by collecting the power-up that a defeated enemy leaves behind. Weapons can be switched along the way. At the end of each level, you must defeat a huge boss in order to go to the next stage.

HINTS:

- extra credits -
To get loads of , when GAME OVER appears, hold II + RUN and keep tapping LEFT.

http://www.mobygames.com/game/turbo-grafx/legendary-axe-ii
