Be Ball is an action/puzzle game in which you have to roll coloured globes around the play area and deposit them on their relevant coloured squares. Once all balls are in place it's on to the next level. Easy, right? Well, maybe not, as there is all manner of wildlife out to put paid to your spherical antics, from hedgehogs to monkeys and penguins. Luckily, the balls themselves do have a use - give them a swift kick and they'll get rid of any creature barring your way. And if you are persistent, you can even whack down walls. Also, be on the lookout for various items scattered around that aid you in your task, like time-stops, smart bombs etc.

COMMENT:

First off, I'll promise not to make any crude jokes about cute girls manhandling massive balls. OK? Right.

Graphics in Be Ball are pretty nice. Good big, chunky sprites, brightly coloured with nice animation. Levels are maybe a bit repetitive and could have done with a few more touches of variety. Music is cute and OK, but nothing you'll be rushing to record off in a hurry.

The game itself is decent. The single screen per level layout can seem a little restrictive, and I think it may have advantaged from larger scrolling maps at times, but I suppose the claustrophobic layout gives a sense of urgency to the gameplay as you have to be very aware of what is following close behind. An advantage is the ability to play with 2 players simultaneously, and there is also a (very) simple kickball game to play, as well as a map editor for those creative designers among you. The puzzle element is pretty minimal as this is mostly an arcade experience and although not as fun as other action puzzlers like Bomber Man and Battle Lode Runner, Be Ball is certainly worth a look..

HINTS:

- Level select -
Enter your password as 677261

http://www.pcengine.co.uk/HTML_Games/Be_Ball.htm
Chew Man Fu has set a curse to rob the world of fried rice, egg rolls and all its other favourite foods. To stop him you must work through 550 rounds, clearing them by placing four different coloured balls into the appropriately-coloured hole.

Gameplay is something of a Pengo variant, as the single-screen levels are inhabited by enemies, who can be killed by firing one of the balls at them at speed. When it hits one it will continue moving in the same direction, rebounding off walls if neccessary, and pushing you backwards slightly if it comes back to you - but it can be instantaneously brought back under control. Blocks can also be moved at a more casual speed, including round corners. Once a block is placed onto its spot, it can be used again as a weapon. The levels are in a maze style, and parts of this can be opened up. The game also includes a small bonus Kick-Ball game for 2 players, which doubles as practice with the control system.

HINTS:

- Level select -
Enter your password as 677261

http://www.mobygames.com/game/turbo-grafx/chew-man-fu
