First thing that you'll notice about Lady Sword is that the graphics are actually pretty good for the PC Engine. The dungeons move nicely, not anywhere near as good as in Phantasy Star, but as good as say Order of the Griffon, and after about 20 minutes or so you get an automap feature that helps out a TON. The enemies are all big, and even though they don't animate, there are a ton of different types, some of them are HUGE and take up the whole screen. My main problem with the graphics is that EVERY level of the dungeon looks exactly the same! I'm not asking for new dungeon graphics or anything, but at least change the freakin color of the walls so I know I'm making progress!

There isn't a whole lot of character devolopment, unfortunately. You basically level up, and that's about it. You can't equip anything (the game will automatically equip certain items when you find them), you can't cast offensive magic, you can't even name your character. About the only thing you have in your arsenal is a healing spell and a special attack that, if it works, will hit an enemy up to 4 times in one turn (great for bosses, usually takes them out in one turn).

Gameplay consists of you wandering through the maze until you meat a mid boss, after which you get a full screen pic of a woman still clothed. Then, if you manage to beat the main boss of that level of the dungeon, you get the same pic only minus the clothes. Be prepared for TONS of random encounters though, you literally get attacked every 2 steps sometimes. The battles go by extremely fast, thankfully, most of the time one hit will kill the enemy once you're at a respectable level. In the later levels you'll be making MUCH use of the save anywhere feature, because some monsters can seriously kill you in one blow. It's frustrating to have to keep saving, loading, saving, loading, but believe me it better than having to backtrack. Once you get your guy leveled up enough most monsters won't be that much of a problem, but it takes alot of time to get to that point.

HINTS:

- No hit mode -
Hold I and turn on the console.

http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/turbo16/review/R27283.html
