Legendary Axe is a fantastic side-scrolling adventure game which was released for the Turbo Grafx 16 in America in the year 1989. In this game you control the hero, Gogan, armed with a magical axe called "Sting". The setting is one of a prehistoric world full of cannibals, lizard people, goblins, and an assortment of unfriendly creatures. The objective of the game is to run the gauntlet of levels and face off against a gigantic boss to rescue your girlfriend.

When it was released it was probably the greatest game of this genre. It won the "Game of the Year" for 'GamePro' magazine, and received high critical acclaim from the editors of 'Electronic Gaming Monthly'. I'm not sure if those magazines even exist anymore. However, 20 years later most people do not remember this game. Legendary Axe is loosely based on the arcade game known as Astyanax (possibly without the original developer's consent). There are apparently a quagmire of licensing issues preventing this game from being released, legally, on newer consoles.

GAMEPLAY:

The game is a standard side-scrolling platform. The control is precise, but does require some skill in order to master the different types of jumps and charged attacks using the power meter. The game is very difficult and when you die, you are sent back to the beginning of the level, which can be a little frustrating. The levels are very intricate and detailed, especially considering the primitive technology used to animate them.

STORY:

The story is kind of irrelevant for this sort of game, but there is enough to it to make defeating the boss at the end of the game rewarding. Basically, you are caveman and the bad guy kidnapped your girlfriend in order to sacrifice her to his moon Gods (or something). Some of the enemy characters do not make a lot of sense. For instance, in one level you face off against a very detailed giant rock that is alive and trying to run you over. In another level you are attacked by bipedal bears. But its different, and that is always a bonus.

http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/turbo16/review/R133750.html
