Some people love this game and some hate it, but if one thing is certain it's this game is weird. You are a combat-equipped slinky which can walk (slink) on walls. You navigate various levels to defeat zodiac-inspired bosses.

Mesopotamia is an original and cute platform game by Atlus. Player controls a weird looking creature that moves by sticking one of its end to walls, in a way similar to a caterpillar or more precicely like those metallic string toys that can go down the stairs. The game is based on Zodiacal elements and counts twelve big stages with a nasty boss at the end of each of them. Many other weird creatures are also spreaded around each maze and are there to stop you. Your creature has an extra ring in its middle which can fire back at those ennoying things. To increase the challenge a little, the player mush reach the exit of each time within a time limit. When destroyed, some enemies drop special power-ups, like extra life, shields or the priceless super-speed or bouncing-shots options...

Mesopotamia is an interesting and somehow entertaining platform game. The string like creature is very well designed and the fact you can also stick to the inside of the maze adds an amazing depth to the game. However, some stages are very large and it is very easy to get lost and I personnaly hate the fact that the boss fight is included in the time limit. That's much too hard... however I love the super-speed option allowing you to more the tinny pink slug at super-fast speed through the mazes. All in all, you will probably have fun playing Mesopotamia, the game is far to be a milestone in Video game history, but it hides some nice surprises and unusual elements and it is one of a kind.

http://www.racketboy.com/retro/turbografx-16/2008/01/the-best-undiscovered-turbografx-16-games.html
Somer Assault is a difficult to describe game. In it you control a pink slinky character with guns attached to it. You move around mazes, climbing on walls, on the ceiling, through shortcuts, and attempt to find you way to the end. Along the way, you have to shoot out many, many enemies. And at the end, you will find a nasty boss surprise.

The story is bizarre, which fits the concept of the game. A sorceress has plans to rule the world. To do so, she has summoned 12 beasts, each based on a sign of the zodiac. It up to you, pink slinky, to defeat the 12 astrological signs.

http://www.mobygames.com/game/turbo-grafx/somer-assault
