Mario has his jumping, Sonic has his speed, but PC Genjin has his head-butt! On a journey through prehistoric lands, this is your main defense against the crazed dinosaurs out to get you. But it's not your only defense, as now and again you will come across huge chunks of meat that grant you increased powers - from the ability to freeze all enemies by head-butting the ground, to a limited period of invincibility - complete with wacky music.

Your cranial skills also come in handy when you are required to jump a long distance, as hitting the attack button as fast as you can will make you somersault in mid-air and increase your jumping range. On your way, you will come across several different types of plant. Yellow ones act as a sort of springboard, and red ones spit out fruit - be careful though as some will transform into an evil plant and come hopping after you. Also, points can be gained by keeping enemies in the air by repeatedly head-butting them - something to remember as points mean lives.

NOTE ABOUT THE NAME:

In Japan, Bonk/PC Kid is called PC Genjin. Genjin means pithecanthrope or primitive man which ties in nicely with the PC (Pithecanthropus Computerurus). This also leads to name-play in future projects like CD Denjin/PC Denjin (Air Zonk) where Den means lightning or electricity and Jin means a person. Genjin is also played with in CD Denjin's title song, which mentions being a 'Genhead' with the Gen coming from Genjin (and possibly a play on 'Gunhed'?). However, the name 'PC Kid' is the original intended English language name (before US marketing bods came up with 'Bonk'), as it has appeared (in English) in the Japanese literature. Got all that?

COMMENT:

While graphically and sonically a little 'primitive' (ahem), PC Genjin is a truly brilliant game, and pretty large too. There's something about whapping baddies with your forehead that is great fun throughout and you really get a satisfaction every time you complete the game - and you will come back to it time and time again. This is one of the games that no Engine owner should be without (and the reason I bought one in the first place) and despite the superior visual look of the sequels, this is still the best in terms of gameplay.

http://www.pcengine.co.uk/HTML_Games/PC_Kid.htm
