This is a sequel to the adventure game Shadowgate. You control Prince Eric, the descendant of the hero of the first game. You return to your home country, only to discover that your father was murdered. You should become the new king, but the minister of the late king has other plans, frames you for killing your own father, and throws you into jail, where your adventure begins.

Unlike the first Shadowgate, this is a platform game - not an action game, but a classical point-and-click adventure viewed from a platform perspective. You can move your hero around, examine, manipulate, and take objects. You can also duck and have a "punch" command. Find the correct solutions to the game's puzzles, otherwise a gruesome death awaits you!

http://www.mobygames.com/game/turbografx-cd/beyond-shadowgate
Buster Bros. is a Shoot-'Em-Up game, developed and published by Hudson, which was released in 1993.

http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/turbocd/home/589228.html
Camp California is a 2D Platformer game, developed by ICOM Simulations and published by Turbo Technologies, Inc., which was released in 1993.

http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/turbocd/home/589231.html
The second game in Cosmic Fantasy series tells the story of a young boy Van, who lives on a planet Idea, a place where technology has not yet reached a high level. One day his sweetheart Laura gets kidnapped by an unknown villain. Van soon discovers that Laura is in fact a princess who can grant immortality to the one who marries her. That's exactly what the evil wizard Galam has in mind. Van sets off to rescue Laura, on a quest that involves intergalactic journeys and travel through time!

This is an "old-school" Japanese RPG with random encounters and turn-based battles. The game is heavy on dungeon exploration. Utilizing the early CD format of Turbo CD, it allows the usage of anim?-style cut scenes to advance the story. It is also one of the earliest console RPG to feature voice acting.

http://www.mobygames.com/game/turbografx-cd/cosmic-fantasy-2
Cotton is a 2d side-scrolling shooter in which you play as the young witch Cotton who sets out on her magical broom in a quest to get her favorite candy. Fortunately for us her obsession gets her in the way of several world-threatening terrors that she must destroy in standard shooter fare.

The game features an experience-earning system in which the more enemies you kill the more you can upgrade your weapon by collecting their power crystals. You can also charge your weapon for special attacks and enlist the aid of Silk, Cotton's magical fairy friend who can form up in different "option" configurations.

http://www.mobygames.com/game/turbografx-cd/fantastic-night-dreams-cotton
"Dragon Slayer" tells the story of a young prince named Selios. One day his old teacher Raiyas sends him to a nearby cave to retrieve a magic weapon. When the prince returns, he finds the house attacked by monsters. Raiyas tells him to seek help in the castle of a baron, whose country has always been allies with theirs for a long time. However, the baron betrays Selios' trust and imprisons him. The young prince manages to escape, but without the possibility to return he has no choice but to wander through the land, trying to find trustworthy companions who would help him to save his country.

This is a traditional medieval-themed Japanese RPG with turn-based combat viewed from first-person perspective (like in Dragon Warrior games). The enemies are semi-random: they do appear out of nowhere and attack suddenly, but they are visible on the screen, and if you flee from a battle they will still be there to pursue you.

http://www.mobygames.com/game/turbografx-cd/dragon-slayer-the-legend-of-heroes
Dungeon Explorer II is a continuation of the story told in Dungeon Explorer. After the fall of the Darklord Natas, Orb of Oras was once again in the hands of the good people of Oddesia. It prevented evil from entering Oddeasia for a century, thus, peace was restored. Now the evil once again threatens the world. Fades, as he calls himself, faithful to Natas, enters the throne of King Oddesia and demands the relinquishment of the Orb. With King Earl II dead and the Orb in the hands of evil, Oddesia was once again in grave danger.

At the same time, Princess Miriam of Solis was visiting Ardeen and was taken hostage by Mynos the Man-Bull. As the game supports five players, you enter the throne room of Ardeen as one or more of the five to-be Immortals, with a character class of your choice: Fighter, Thief, Wizard, Cleric, Bard, Hunter, Dwarf or the Elf.

Dungeon Explorer II plays very similarly to its prequel. You move around and talk to people in a regular RPG fashion. Since the movement is not limited to squares and you can move diagonally, the game has very action-oriented gameplay. You fight enemies as you would in The Legend of Zelda or Gauntlet, from a top-town view. Enemies spawn from Generators and drop usable items, power-ups and provide experience as you kill them. Items are used in real-time and leveling up gives you more health.

New to Dungeon Explorer II, the game takes full advantage of the CD format. It includes full voice-acted dialogue instead of common subtitled dialogue. The game also includes fully digitalized music tracks, played from the game CD, as well as video sequences as introductional videos in TurboGrafx-CD fashion.

http://www.mobygames.com/game/turbografx-cd/dungeon-explorer-ii
Exile concerns the desert adventures of Sadler, the great hero whose revolt years before led to the downfall of a powerful empire. Recently, however, peace was broken in Sadler's home country, as the rival Luciel empire has been launching attacks on the Village of Dunes.

Exile is a hybrid action/role-playing game. Travel and exploration occurs in the traditional overhead view of RPGs, while the battles and dungeons are side-scrolling mazes, similar to Wanderers from Ys. Characters gain experience and levels, buy equipment, and use magic.

http://www.mobygames.com/game/turbografx-cd/exile_
Exile: Wicked Phenomenon is an Action Role-Playing game, developed by Telenet and published by Working Designs, which was released in 1993.

http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/turbocd/home/589281.html
As Parodius was a parody of Gradius, Star Parodier is a parody of Super Star Soldier. Choosing from either Bomber Man, a cute PC Engine or the Paro Caesar spacecraft, you blast your way through various themed levels and face a wide variety of interesting, amusing and sometimes familiar enemies.

A NOTE ON THE TITLE: In Japanese, Super Star Soldier is spelt more phonetically, i.e. Supaa Sutaa Soruja. So as a parody, Paroja is a contraction of Soruja (Soldier) and Parodi (parody). The title is written as Star Parodier - an accurate representation of the intention, and as this seems to be the common spelling among PC Engine fans. All this confusion and word-play is probably why many import companies just settled on the less complicated Star Parody. 

Was due for release in the USA as Fantasy Star Soldier. This is the unreleased US prototype which is the full game.

http://www.pcengine.co.uk/HTML_Games/Star_Parodier.htm
Deep inside you there lurks a warrior. Let him loose! And test him against the martial arts champions of 5 nations. Grit your teeth, pump up and take after Retsu and Geki from Japan. Most worthy opponents! But watch out for the baddest - Adon and Sagat, a couple of Thai's. Mike and Joe (USA), Birdi and Eagle (UK), Lee and Gen (China) all have their own special "tricks." Be quick and strong, or be gone!

http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/turbocd/home/589291.html
Final Zone II is a top down shooter in which you controls a soldier on some levels and vehicle on other levels. As a soldier you don a "New Age Power Suit" and have a choice of playing several different characters, though it is only a one player game.

The object of the game is to fight an enemy army led by "ZOD" who is a mass murderer and killed some of your commando friends. There are various armaments and shields that you can pick up along the way. There are several manga-style animation sequences in the game.

This is the sequel to a Mega Drive game called Final Zone which was released in 1990 also.

http://www.mobygames.com/game/turbografx-cd/final-zone-ii
Forgotten Worlds features two characters known as The Nameless Ones, who both look like Arnold Schwarzenegger, one even has a mohawk. It's their job to rid the planet of the attacking aliens.

Guiding your character around the screen as they fly with jet-packs, guns on full auto, you control a satellite which you rotate around your character for the direction in which your gun is firing. At the end of each level is a boss which needs to be killed to progress.

Enemies that have been killed drop money. At the end of every level is a shop where you can buy weapons, armour, items and first-aid packs.

http://www.mobygames.com/game/turbografx-cd/forgotten-worlds
4 Games in 1 CD for Turbo Grafx 16. Gates of Thunder, Bonk's Adventure, Bonk's Revenge & Bomberman (Cheat code required). It was a free, bundled game with a purchase of Turbo DUO system and did not come in a case.

NOTE: 4th game is Hidden (Up, Right, Down, Left, II to unlock Bomberman) ~pCe

http://www.estarland.com/product16457.html
Godzilla is an Action game, developed by Alfa System and published by Toho, which was released in 1993.

http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/turbocd/home/589310.html
How far can you go before you implode?

Implode takes the familiar falling block puzzle game and turns it upside down. Rows of new blocks are inserted into the playing field from the bottom, and it is up to you to remove groups of 3 or more similarly colored blocks.

In addition to blocks, bombs also appear, and if played correctly, can help you clear out the playing field to make room for more blocks. Additionally, flashing blocks will appear -- these are block that only stay the same color for a brief amount of time. Be careful, or else the opportunity to remove a flashing block may evade you if it gets pushed up while you are waiting for it to cycle around to your desired color.

As the game progress things get more difficult. The game gets faster, the number of different colored blocks on screen goes up, and the number of rows needed to move on to the next level increase. 

http://gooddealgames.com/inventory/Turbografx.html
A detective simulator, you play the role of J.B. Harold, who must investigate the murder of a wealthy businessman and bring the murderer to court. You have to do all the work a real detective would do: find clues, gather evidence, interrogate suspects, establish the motive for the crime - and in the end, to make sure your case will stand up in the court.

http://www.mobygames.com/game/turbografx-cd/murder-club
Jack Nicklaus' World Golf Tour is a Golf Sim game, developed by Sculptured Software and published by Victor Interactive Software, which was released in 1992.

http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/turbocd/home/916054.html
The first and only Madden game to make to appear on the TurboGrafx, it features the standard game modes such as exhibition and season and features full-motion video of plays, fans and many other important events happening on and off the field. It also features digitized voices of the quarterbacks, referees and fans, but the most important being the games namesake, John Madden, who lends his voice talent to the game.

http://www.mobygames.com/game/turbografx-cd/john-madden-duo-cd-football
In the near future, a cabal of 4 very evil, powerful men known as The Force is planning world domination through the use of a Super Weapon known and Indra. You are Guy Kazama, a general-purpose bad-ass soldier who can stop these guys. You must take out each of the conspirators one by one and destroy the Indra before it becomes fully operational.

Last Alert is a shoot-em up played from a top-down perspective. You move Guy around more than 20 levels and shoot everything that stands in your way.

http://www.mobygames.com/game/turbografx-cd/last-alert
Loom is an epic adventure game from LucasFilm. What sets Loom apart from other adventure games (in direct comparison with Sierra's) is its unique interface: you do not carry items around, but rather manipulate existing items through the use of spells. The spells themselves are woven through playing magical notes on a special distaff. Loom also features three difficultly levels, and differentiates them by changing the way the interface works: Standard features the distaff at the bottom of the screen but notes aren't written, whereas Expert doesn't have the distaff and you have to replay the spells by hearing alone.

In Loom you play the role of Bobbin Threadbare, a young man from the Guild of Weavers who just turned 17. Although you do not know why, you are outcast from the guild and blamed for the lack of prosperity in recent times.

After the Council of Elders is attacked and the Elders are turned into swans, you as Bobbin must set forth on a journey to find the swans and try to restore order to the Guild of Weavers. 

http://www.mobygames.com/game/turbografx-cd/loom
Japan, 12th century. After your father has been murdered, you set out on a quest to become Shogun to restore the honor of your family.

You'll have to defeat all your enemies - including your brother.

Most of the time, you'll move your troops through the big map of Japan - as soon as something happens, you'll have to fight your enemies in action sequences, such as a Gauntlet-like fortress attack or defending against a Ninja assassin. If two troops collide, a battle might ensue in which you'll have to use all your strategical wits to guide your men to victory.

http://www.mobygames.com/game/turbografx-cd/lords-of-the-rising-sun
In the once peaceful land of Mistral, legend holds of a brave knight named Drak who has sealed an evil god named Deoric beneath the six continents of the land. However, peace never lasts...

The Garuda Empire has invaded the lands of Mistral, and the Six Generals, led by Sombul, have conquered the continents. Sombul's ambition: to resurrect Deoric and plunge the land into chaos.

Duran, descendant of Drak, is the only one who can stop the Garuda Empire's mad plan, and with the power of Drak's mystic armors, he heads off to stop Sombul at any cost.

http://www.mobygames.com/game/turbografx-cd/lords-of-thunder
Magical Dinosaur Tour is an Edutainment game, developed and published by Victor Interactive Software, which was released in 1990.

http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/turbocd/home/916089.html
Meteor Blaster DX takes the familiar Asteroids game play and adds in-game cinemas, multiple ships to select from, power ups, CD audio and other new features.

Also included on the CD are 2 bonus games:

Loop and Implode Caravan Version, as well as lots of hidden features.

You can select from one of 4 different ships for the game. Each ship has its own benefits and drawbacks. There are also powerups that will allow you to enhance your ship's performance while in the game.

http://gooddealgames.com/inventory/Turbografx.html
The third installment of the roleplaying series, with a multi-faceted plot full of twists and turns. Ease of use was central to the gameplay and interface, and the plot included piles of new twists and turns.

Lead a party of adventurers to rendezvous with the legendary wizard Corak. From dark moldy dungeons, through corridors of hewn stone and timber, and onward to the lofty frozen peaks of Terra you will uncover the mysteries that surround the exotic islands in the Great Sea.

http://www.mobygames.com/game/sega-cd/might-and-magic-iii-isles-of-terra
Minesweeper is a Puzzle game, developed by ARC Co. Ltd and published by Pack-In-Video, which was released in Japan in 1992.

http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/turbocd/home/563698.html
Wonder Boy III: Monster Lair is a quite different game to most of the games in the Wonder Boy series. You play a green-haired dude who must attack the invaders that attempt to collect weapons and use them to destroy the land. The game starts out like a simple platform game, but it's just when Wonder Boy enters the skull further on that the game is transformed into a shoot 'em up, so basically the gameplay consists of action and shooter scenes.

In the action scenes, your vitality decreases as you make your way towards the skull, but this can be restored by collecting fruit. A wide variety of weapons can be picked up, and not only does these allow you to use the weapons for a limited amount of time, but they also increase your vitality.

In the shooter scenes, you ride your pink friend as you make your way through the scene. Here, your vitality remains static unless you are hit by an enemy passing by. As usual, there is a boss waiting for you at the end which you must defeat. Every boss changes color to show how much damage has been done to it. You have to defeat some bosses in two stages.

If your vitality gets low in each scene, you'll lose a life. You can also choose to have Wonder Girl join you, as two players can play the game. 

http://www.mobygames.com/game/turbografx-cd/wonder-boy-iii-monster-lair
The Grand Vizier Jaffar has thrown you into a dark dungeon and plans to marry the girl of your dreams in an hour. You're not going to let that happen are you? Try to escape from the dungeon, take out Jaffar's guards, find your way through the Sultan's palace and defeat Jaffar himself. Now go, you've got 60 minutes!

Prince of Persia is a 2D platformer with run and jump gameplay. Your hero must avoid deadly traps, solve some simple puzzles and engage in sword fights with the guards. The player has an infinite amount of lives, but has to restart at the beginning of a level each time he dies, and must complete the game within an hour. An especially noteworthy aspect of the game is the very fluent animation of your character.

The Game Boy Color and SNES versions of the game feature additional levels and new enemies. The Genesis version has a new intro and an altered set of graphics but the level layout remains almost identical to that of the original.

http://www.mobygames.com/game/turbografx-cd/prince-of-persia
Riot Zone is a side-scrolling fighting game that follows two heroes as they fight to take down an evil organization. The crime syndicate Dragon Zone has kidnapped Hawk's girlfriend and it's up to him and his partner detective, Tony, to get her back. Join them as they jump "fists first" into the grim Kowloon district. 

http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/turbocd/home/563763.html
While very young, Aarbron was kidnapped and enslaved by the Priests of the Beast Lord. He grew up on drugs made to destroy his own will and turn him into the Beast Messenger, a powerful creature serving Maletoth, The Beast Lord himself. He did his job, until one day he noticed a man about to be sacrificed in a ritual, his face triggering ancient memories... and as the sacrificial knife descended into the man's body, Aarbron recognizes the face. Of his father. As his father dies in the altar, memories of his childhood and tormented past at the hands of the Beast Lord emerged, and as feelings of hate over his captors took over him, he swore revenge and fled the temple, knowing the road to avenge his father and redemption would be hard.

Shadow of the Beast, one of Psygnosis most popular titles during the 16-bit computer era is a side-scrolling platformer best known for the use of parallax scrolling along lush graphics, a musical score by David Whittaker, a iconic cover by Roger Dean and what many consider to be unforgiving gameplay, balancing between the "very challenging" and the "impossible". The player has to navigate through several areas filled with enemies and traps, collecting keys and activating triggers than open new areas or give Aarbron the means to overcome a sub-boss. The number of moves the player has at disposal is limited: duck, jump and only two attacks: punch and a flying kick.

While most enemies die with just one hit, the player must time each attack accurately. However, there are also traps of objects that cannot be destroyed, and these require the player to jump, duck or move according the sequence. The player has only one life with 12 hit points that can be replenished by collecting some objects hidden in the level (like an off-route location or a under a megalith), which also contributes to the difficulty level.

http://www.mobygames.com/game/turbografx-cd/shadow-of-the-beast
The Dark Ones have captured the Ring of Five and imprisoned the wizards that guard it. As Lykos, you have the power to transform into different creatures. You need to rescue the wizards and the Ring of Five from the Dark Ones before they invade your home, Krellion.

You have the ability to change into different animals and the game works as a platformer where you go on quests to save the wizards of the land working up to recover the Ring of Five. Each time you rescue a wizard, you gain the ability to turn into a new animal. You need the different forms to complete puzzles and get into certain areas to rescue all of the wizards.

http://www.mobygames.com/game/turbografx-cd/shape-shifter
Use your wits, interviewing skills, logic, and reasoning to solve three cases as Sherlock Holmes. Arguably the first multimedia PC CDROM title ever produced, with over 90 minutes of motion video of Mr. Holmes' interaction with everyone on Baker Street.

http://www.mobygames.com/game/turbografx-cd/sherlock-holmes-consulting-detective
"What they said about Sherlock I, you'll say about Sherlock II"...reads the advert in the box, based on the nice critics about Volume I.

- The same video technology (this is 1992), keeps offering true interactive environment: actually letting you "feel" the traffic in the streets of the old London?

- The same structure brings a familiar look, inviting to channel all attention to the task of solving mysteries: your intelligence, skills and patience are required to find clues by listening to people, observing details, or even reading the London Times - but don't let yourself be misguided by a wrong hint.

- The same number of cases: 3

But, each situation is completely different: " The Two Lions" involving the murder of circus lions, "The Pilfered Paintings" just bought by The National Gallery...and "The Murdered Munitions Magnate", where hints reveal different possible motives...have nothing in common, except the detective in charge: you? 

http://www.mobygames.com/game/turbografx-cd/sherlock-holmes-consulting-detective-volume-ii
The most ambitious and far-reaching of Maxis' Sim lineage, Sim Earth puts you in charge of an entire planet throughout its 10 billion year lifespan. Your ultimate task is to guide the planet's inhabitants into the stars, from its humble single-celled roots.

The main threats you face include pollution, disease, famine, war and global warming. The controls available to you include the chance to move mountains and continents, creating different levels of species, and unleash tidal waves and earthquakes so as to reshape your planet. All of these things take from your limited energy, which must be replenished. 

http://www.mobygames.com/game/turbografx-cd/simearth-the-living-planet
There is one side story to Space Harrier that never made it out of the development phase: Space Fantasy Zone. Space Harrier and Fantasy Zone were always related to a certain degree -- they both shared the same game universe, for example. This hybrid of the two games was planned for the PC Engine Super CD, which is the TurboGrafx-16 CD in America. The game was close to completion, as leaked ROMs of the game reveal a surprisingly playable shooter.

Space Fantasy Zone does not star the harrier hero, but instead places Opa-Opa in the spotlight. This living ship was previously star of a series of side-scrolling shooters, but in this hybrid, Opa flies directly into the screen just like Space Harrier. In addition to borrowing the perspective and gameplay of Space Harrier, this sorta-sequel brings aboard several Space Harrier enemies. From the Fantasy Zone series, Space Fantasy Zone inherits the game's shop system (cleverly called Weaponalds) and many of the 8-bit shooter's enemies, including bosses. If you are very familiar with Fantasy Zone, you will undoubtedly notice that the horizons are straight out of Fantasy Zone.

As mentioned, Space Fantasy Zone never did make it to retail. But you can play elements of it in the SEGA Ages remake of Fantasy Zone, as the game recasts the boss battles in 3D just like Space Fantasy Zone. 

http://videogames.yahoo.com/news-1244518-3
Splash Lake is an action strategy puzzle game. Each round consists of a single screen play area composed of tiles suspended over a lake. You control an Ostrich that can crack the tiles and cause them to fall into the water. Your goal is to use this ability to make all the bad guys on the screen fall into the water.

Splash Lake features more than 60 levels, a simultaneous two-player mode, and amusing cutscenes every 10 levels.

http://www.mobygames.com/game/turbografx-cd/splash-lake
As Parodius was a parody of Gradius, Star Parodier is a parody of Super Star Soldier. Choosing from either Bomber Man, a cute PC Engine or the Paro Caesar spacecraft, you blast your way through various themed levels and face a wide variety of interesting, amusing and sometimes familiar enemies.

A NOTE ON THE TITLE: In Japanese, Super Star Soldier is spelt more phonetically, i.e. Supaa Sutaa Soruja. So as a parody, Paroja is a contraction of Soruja (Soldier) and Parodi (parody). The title is written as Star Parodier - an accurate representation of the intention, and as this seems to be the common spelling among PC Engine fans. All this confusion and word-play is probably why many import companies just settled on the less complicated Star Parody. 

Was due for release in the USA as Fantasy Star Soldier.

http://www.pcengine.co.uk/HTML_Games/Star_Parodier.htm
Super Air Zonk: Rockabilly Paradise is the sequel to Air Zonk where once again the player takes control of the titular character in a battle against his arch nemesis, the evil SandroVitch.

The gameplay is similar to the first, a 2-D side scrolling shooter where the player advances throughout the stage, destroying enemies and collecting power-ups to make it to the end of the stage and advance to the next. The standard huge bosses are still present along with the cartoonish-style of graphics that was present in its predecessor.

Zonk can also transform in nine different super-powered alter egos by collecting a meat icon. They include Sushi Zonk (who hurls sushi at opponents), Mini Air-Zonk, Mr. Heli Zonk, Elvis Zonk and even Gamera Zonk. He can also morph into other forms with powers and more weaponry by combining with friends that are scattered throughout the stage.

http://www.mobygames.com/game/turbografx-cd/super-air-zonk-rockabilly-paradise
Since this is a promo, a real review isn't fair. Its basically Bomberman '94, but everyone is Kabuki. Only one board. No single player mode. A very cool nick-knack, but make sure you have the simply fantastic Bomberman '94 before you spend three times the money on this.

Reviewer: SignOfZeta
http://www.pcedaisakusen.net/2/28/482/1/Deden-No-Den-jp.htm
The Addams Family is a 2D Platformer game, developed by ICOM Simulations and published by Turbo Technologies, Inc., which was released in 1991.

http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/turbocd/home/589185.html
The Dynastic Hero is an Action Role-Playing game, developed by Hudson and published by Turbo Technologies, Inc., which was released in 1993.

http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/turbocd/home/589274.html
The Kick Boxing is a Boxing game, developed by Loriciels and published by Micro World, which was released in Japan in 1992.

http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/turbocd/home/589191.html
The second game in the Valis series continues the story of Yuko, an ordinary Japanese teenage girl who travels to another world to fight evil with her sacred sword Valis. After Yuko has defeated Rogles, who wanted to gain control over the three world in the universe, the dream world Vekanti fell into the hands of Emperor Megas, who wanted to become its king. Yuko must now travel to the dream world and to defeat Megas with her magical sword.

This is an action platformer. Yuko can run, jump, and fight enemies with her sword. There are obstacles on her way (spikes, pits, etc.), moving platforms, and other standard platform game accessories. Once a level is completed, a battle against a boss enemy awaits Yuko.

http://www.mobygames.com/game/turbografx-cd/valis-ii
Somewhere in the Dark World, evil rears its ugly head once again...

A black-hearted man named Glames, possessor of a sword named Leethus, threatens the Human World, the Dream World, and the Dark World with complete and utter destruction. A young girl from the Dark World named Cham escapes from Glames, and seeks help to destroy him.

She comes to the Human World, searching for the Valis Warrior, Yuko Ahso, and more importantly, the Valis Sword.

Yuko must now help Cham defeat Glames before the three worlds are torn apart!

New improvements over the previous two Valis games include 3 playable characters, 3 unique weapons for each character, and greater, more powerful magic spells.

http://www.mobygames.com/game/turbografx-cd/valis-iii
Vasteel is a Sci-Fi Turn-Based Strategy game, developed by Human Entertainment and published by Working Designs, which was released in 1993.

http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/turbocd/home/916156.html
This is a Turbo CD release of the first two games of action RPG series Ys. You control a young red-haired hero named Adol Christian, whose task is to find the six books of Ys, an ancient paradise-like land that mysteriously disappeared long time ago. It is said that whoever possesses the six books can gain access into Ys. In the first game, Adol is on the quest to find the books and to enter Ys. The second game takes place in Ys itself, and Adol must defeat the evil Dark Fact and to liberate the land.

Turbo CD release features enhanced CD-quality sound, better graphics, and anim?-style cut scenes.

http://www.mobygames.com/game/turbografx-cd/ys-book-i-ii
Adol's long time friend, Dogi wishes to return to his home town of Redmont after hearing about strange disturbances that are happening there. Always looking for an adventure, Adol joins him and soon finds out the cause of this new evil.

Ys III breaks away from the "bumping into enemies" battle system of the first two games and allows Adol to control his sword in a variety of directions. As well as changing the battle system, the game is now side scrolling instead of the previous games top-down view. Adol also now has the ability to jump. Not new to the series is the use of magical rings which give Adol different powering up abilities such as healing and shielding. The game also uses various key items found along the way to solve minor puzzles and progress the story.

http://www.mobygames.com/game/turbografx-cd/ys-iii-wanderers-from-ys
*
