THE QUEST

After years of research and many failed attempts, Professor Sidney Ruffleberg finally did it! With one brilliant shot of electricity, he successfully catapulted himself and his friends into a fantasy world of their own design. He called the world "Evermore" and watched over it from a futuristic city, floating high above the ancient lands. What the professor didn't know was that a sinister force has been working against him from the beginning. This entity would quickly make Professor Sid's dreams into a nightmare from which there would be no escape. In the real world, the disappearance of the professor and his friends went largely unnoticed.

Years after the spark that sealed the fate of the scientist and his friends, the mansion was an abandoned, deteriorating heap -- a mysterious structure from the past. And a mystery it would have remained if it weren't for the adventuring instincts of a boy and his dog from Podunk. Propelled into Evermore without so much as a warning, they find a world that has gone from a fantasy-born utopia to a dream turned upside-down. With his wits, weapons, and will the boy finds adventure, and the dog sniffs out everything else.

Seek out the leaders of the lands of Evermore. They alone can help you unravel the mysteries of the land. Discover the secret of Evermore or you will never see Podunk again.

--From the SNES Secret of Evermore instruction manual.

Directions:

Find the leaders of Evermore to help you find the secrets and get back to your hometown of Podunk. 

Hints:

Unlimited Bazooka Ammo
If you Purchase the ammo that has 800atk power, a glitch in the game somehow gives you infininte uses of the ammo rather than only 10 uses of the ammo. 

Reviewer: Adrian
http://www.consoleclassix.com/snes/secret_of_evermore.html
A double enhancement using patches from Ninakoru and FuSoYa...

Secret of Evermore Gameplay Balance Patch

This patch has one main objective, and is making the game much more enjoyable on the gameplay side. No new monsters, no hard mode, just loads of tweaks to avoid mass grinding and to have a fairly challenging game in front of us in every moment.

This patch is made on IPS format. The patch include several changes, from monster stats to a shared weapon and spell script to make powering those much more easy.

http://www.romhacking.net/hacks/602/

&

Secret of Evermore 2 Player Edition

Secret of Evermore... like many people back in the SNES days, when I tried this game out I was expecting a game of the same caliber as Secret of Mana. And like many, I was rather disappointed. But the one major thing that really irked me about the game was the lack of 2 player support. I mean really, if you're going to give it a name similar to SoM, and you're going to use the same battle system, and the same ring menu system, and use the same method of switching the character you're in control of using Select, then why in the world would you stop there and not make it multiplayer like SoM!?

Anyway, fast forward to the end of 2003. I was trying to choose a multiplayer console RPG Zero-G and I could play together, when I remembered SoE and its annoying lack of 2 player support. It then occured to me that if it still bothered me so much, why not just do something about it?

So I did. -_^

And this patch is the result. Now you can finally have a proper 2 player game of Secret of Evermore! You can hit start on the first or second controller to enter/withdraw from the game, and either player can control either character, just like in SoM. There's even a controller indicator number that will appear beside the character you're in control of. 

http://fusoya.eludevisibility.org/soe/index.html
