If you're one of those lame kiddies who think that graphics make a good RPG, well you're going to like Tales of Phantasia. If you're everybody else, and you know that gameplay is also important to a good RPG, well you're going to like Tales of Phantasia. This is one of the games developed by the god-company tri-Ace, back when they still worked for Namco and stuff. They're the same folks who made Star Ocean and Valkyrie Profile, and the same things that made those games badass are at work in this one: awesome graphics, and a kickass game to back it up, with a different and innovative combat system. If you can't tell, I like this game a lot. Describing the battle system is difficult.. I've frequently heard it referred to as sort of a fighting game, but that's completely wrong. It allows for a lot more strategy and movement than most games, but you really have to see it for yourself. A is to attack, B is to use a special technique, Y is to change your targeting, and X brings up the menu.

Sure, the AI's dumber than a rock, and it's annoying when you're trying to fight a Harpy and you're just standing there slashing at air, but it's more fun than you're likely to have from doing something else. And that's what's important.

Tips:

Hard Mode
In the title screen, highlight New game and press A, B, Y and X on the controller at the same time. You will hear 'Ya ta!' upon doing so, indicating you've done it right.

http://www.romhacking.net/trans/470/
A long time ago, the evil king, Mao, armed with seemingly unlimited power, attacked your country. The poor people were scared, but stood strong against his advances. The people came together against King Mao and defeated him in a flash of brilliance. No one was sure if Mao was truly dead, and the all feared his return...

FEATURES:

LMB: Linear Motion Battle System

This new battle system allows for the speed and action not present in many turn based RPG battle systems. You control the main charachter, Cless, but you can also give orders to your other characters allowing the computer's sophisticated AI to control them. Both length and height are included, allowing for many levels of attack. 

FVD: Flexible Voice Driver

Usually, the Super FamCom's sound hardware would not be able to handle playing full voice samples. However, with the Flexible Voice Driver, you can include even full songs, like the opening theme "The Dream Will Not Die". All the attacks and spells are fully voiced, but you can control how much voice you hear from the game. Many talented voice actors and actresses lent their talents for this marvelous game.

http://topping.zophar.net/vop/info.htm
