In the future, human soldiers of John Connor's resistance force against the machines are fighting a losing war against Skynet and its robot forces. Discovering that one of the foundation technologies for Skynet is the cybernetics technology used in the creation of cyborg police officer RoboCop, Flo, a resistance soldier, is sent back in time to destroy RoboCop and stop Skynet from being built. However Skynet learns of the time travel attempt and sends Terminators to stop Flo.

RoboCop soon meets up with Flo and must engage in battle against Terminators, the forces of OCP and several obstacles. Upon discovering one of the Terminators has infiltrated the OCP building, RoboCop plugs himself into a console to reprogram the security, only to fall into a trap and be digitized. After his body is disassembled and used for building Skynet, RoboCop watches Skynet come to power before using his digitized mind to seize control of an abandoned robotics factory, rebuild himself, and begin to destroy Skynet in the future. He successfully destroys the Skynet CPU and prevails, and turns his sights to helping humanity rebuild from the devastation.

Tips:

Passwords:
TPST Future
SKNN Inner Sanctum
BSHK Robot Killer
RNTM Self Destruction
MWFX Skynet Core CPU
SKMD Skynet Inner Perimeter
SKTR Skynet Outer Perimeter
HKFL Spaceship
DRFT Storage Facility

Strange Credits
After you beat the game, during the credits press B to see strange things happen like 'Thanks to Bill Clinton' ect?

Climb Into The Sky
While climbing up a ladder, hold X + A. Oddly enough, Robocop will continue climbing past the ladder and into the sky!  By exploiting this glitch you can find many shortcuts throughout the stages, especially Skynet Outer Perimeter.


http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robocop_versus_The_Terminator
The Terminator is an action shooter game. The main character, Kyle Reese, traverses through levels that closely parallel the movie's environment. In all levels, the main character has a jump and has various weapons throughout the game. The first level takes place in the future and the main character has hand grenades, timed bombs, and a machine gun as weapon choices. The later levels take place in modern settings and the primary weapon is a shotgun only. The final level takes place inside the Cyberdyne factory, where you battle the Terminator alone. The objective of this level is to lead the Terminator into a compactor which destroys him.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Terminator_computer_and_video_games#Terminator_2:_Judgment_Day_.28B.I.T.S..29
