This game has been sold on eBay numerous times and is a popular fake game, so I decided to give it a try and write a review.

From little playtime and some knowledge of game mechanics, I had Pokemon Chaos Black Version figured out. The game is a basic hack of a Pokemon game found on eBay. This game at first seems like it will be an interesting new game, since the start up logo and the start screen both are really cool.

As you start the game, a little 3-page story appears about these 4 PokeGods and you having to be a trainer like your sister. You choose names and stuff (identical to FireRed and LeafGreen) and then end up in your room. You then find out that the town is the exact same as FireRed and LeafGreen as well as all other towns/cities in the game.

So you do the normal sequence of trying to leave town and Oak comes up and take you to the lab. There you can get three starters, all new with cool sprites. After completing the rival battle, I noticed a few things. The first was that the movesets were altered as well as the Pokemon, a plus for the game. A downside was that by opening up the start menu and selecting Pokemon, you could tell that every Pokemon was based off of another since those sprites hadn't changed.

As I advanced I found Route 1 to be a maze with some interesting paths. Diglett Tunnel had totally been moved around as well as other things in the route, making it difficult to navigate. All people and houses remained the same though even their text and location, another downside. The Pokemon on the route were all interesting.

Viridian City was the same, so I went over to Route 22, which hadn't been modified at all, to see what was up over there. I found some new Pokemon, a Spearow and a Mankey, some clues that this project had not been completed and sold on eBay early. Next I went over to the PokeMart, got the parcel, went to Oak, got the PokeDex, and went back through Route 1 into Viridian. That's when the old guy taught me how to catch Pokemon. He used the regular Weedle as an example. So then I went into the Viridian Forest, but every trainer I faced had Pokemon that were the same from FR/LG. And on the PokeDex, they weren't added as those Pokemon. The Forest had changed a lot too. So, I continued into Pewter...

Brock was the same as well as the town. I beat Brock easily and continued into Route 3. As I searched for Pokemon in the grass, I found something out that was a humungous downside; capture rate remained the same for Pokemon. Capture rate is used so that Pokemon later in the game are harder to catch them, but since the Pokemon sprites were mixed around, it wasn't the same Pokemon in each route; it was different ones from later in the game. It was extremely hard to catch this Pokemon, and I couldn't with Pokeballs, even with it in the red zone. After that, the game started glitching up and it became harder to progress.

Graphics: 5/10

The graphics were actually downgraded from FR/LG.

Sound/Music: 6/10

I love the music in FR/LG; however, it was a complete bad rip of the music that was glitched up.

Uniqueness: 3/10

The sprites were unique and so were the routes, everything else was the same as FR/LG.

Game Play: 4/10

For a game like this, it should be better; gameplay glitched up and made some parts unplayable.

Total Score: 18/40

Don't bother getting this game as a ROM or buying it on eBay, it's a bad FAKE game.

Reviewer: Unknown
http://www.pokezam.com/games/fake/chaosblack/
You have finished your adventure in Shinou. But you're looking for an new adventure. Wat you don't know is that the safari zone had pokemon from Shinou. But they have escaped and have been spread to whole the region. Team Rocket has got Mewtwo in their hands again. Mewtwo was feeling ill and let team rocket capture himself. Team Rocket did, so they gave meewtwo an armor. After that he escaped again. So you must capture him.

http://www.pokecommunity.com/showthread.php?t=89814
The year is 2010. Technology has advanced beyond the expectations of the public 5 years back. Set in the region of CONTRI, relations with the KANTO region have been going smoothly. Many people, such as yourself, have flocked all over the place to live in this warm, sunny climate. But also, X Rocket has been established to have the opportunity of taking over the Region. Now, a new challenge has begun, to complete the CONTRI league, and become the CONTRI champion. But! New Training Gym's have been built to psych you up for the League so take advantge of them. I bid you good luck!

http://www.underground-gamer.com/details.php?id=24857
No information online about this Pokemon Hack for Game Boy Advance.  ~Rx
No information online about this Pokemon Hack for Game Boy Advance.  ~Rx
You are a young Trainer starting your journey in a peninsula called Tide Town. You get your first Pokemon and are off on your quest. Along the way, you find you face many rivals and challenges, the infamous Team Rocket being one of them. Can you stop this threat and become a full-fledged Pokemon Master? How many lives will you affect along the way? And what is this green forest Pokemon that's being pursued? Play and find out!

http://www.underground-gamer.com/details.php?id=24857
Rijon Adventures is an overhaul of Pok?mon FireRed. It draws its appearance from Pok?mon Brown, another ROM hack from the Rijon Trilogy, and looks very similar to Brownthe region in the game is remade in Advance Generation glory. Most towns and areas are the same as from this.

But rijonAdventures is, by no means, a remake.

rijonAdventures takes place twenty years after. There are loads of changes that make this very much a new adventure. Move through many environments and survive numerous challenges to get to the top! If you've played Pok?mon Brown, there are a ton of changes that you will immediately notice
Pokemon Shiny Gold is a hack of fire-red that turns it into a semi-complete remake of Pokemon Gold and Silver.

Features of Current Beta 5

- Complete Region of Johto is Playable (Excluding Mt. Silver and the hidden cave in the Dragon's Den)

- Play in Kanto up to Fuschia City (Pewter, Viridian, Pallet Town, And Cinnabar are currently unavailable)

- New Phone Booth System (replacing the phone card from the PokeGear

- 3 new mini rivals

- New Main Rival: Carlos (you still have the old rival as well)

- Battle Tower added

- After you beat the Champion Lance you must also beat Carlos (rival) one more time.

- Music replaced including Music from Emerald and Diamond/Pearl and Final Fantasy.

- Jess and Jamie (take-offs of Jesse and James from the anime)

- New side quests and storyline twists including the S.S.Anne sinking revealing a cave to the GS Ball!

- Trick House added

- Hoenn Pokemon available

- Kanto starters are available through certain requirements

- Hoenn starters somewhat available through certain requirements. 

http://datacrystal.org/wiki/Pokemon_Shiny_Gold
Pok?mon FireRed takes the player into the world of Kanto on a mission to catch all of the 350 pok?mon for Pok?mon researcher Prof. Oak. Pok?mon are animal-looking creatures that pretty much form this and all the other games in the Pok?mon Universe. Your challenge is to capture them all using pok?balls and your own set of these strange creatures, as well as training them for the ultimate battle, the Elite Four!

It is a remake of the original and offers the same diversity of gameplay as the original. However, this game's got everything you might miss in the classic game: updated art, splendid graphics, new pok?mon and perhaps the most interesting: the wireless adapter. This makes you able of wirelessly trading with your friends within a limited radius. In addition to all of this, FireRed lets you explore a new set of islands outside of Kanto, the Sevii Islands! Enter the union room, make the team of your dreams or explore the world of Kanto in this epic gameplay experience from the Universe of Pok?mon. Gotta catch 'em all!

http://www.mobygames.com/game/gameboy-advance/pokmon-firered
