Battle Ping Pong is a Sports game, developed and published by Quest, which was released in Japan in 1990.

http://www.gamefaqs.com/portable/gameboy/home/579684.html
Jimmy Connors Pro Tennis Tour is a Tennis game, developed by NMS Software and published by Misawa, which was released in 1993.

http://www.gamefaqs.com/portable/gameboy/home/565332.html
Tennis anyone? Enjoy Game Boy Tennis for realistic match play action. You can try power serves, skillfully placed shots, lofty lobs and killer cross courts. Umpire Mario will call the close ones! So, get ready to serve, and match the baseline - it's Tennis, for everyone!

http://www.gamefaqs.com/portable/gameboy/home/585955.html
Top Rank Tennis is a Tennis game, developed by Pax Softonica and published by Nintendo, which was released in 1993.

http://www.gamefaqs.com/portable/gameboy/home/585968.html
Agassi Tennis Generation brings you up close and personal to the biggest stars in tennis. Play as Andre Agassi, or compete against him, as you smash, volley, lob, and serve on courts from all over the world in 16 tournaments. The game features 32 unique players with realistic movements, various court surfaces, and three challenging game modes including Quick Match, Arcade, and Tournament. Can you win your way to the top ranks of tennis stardom?

http://www.gamefaqs.com/portable/gbadvance/home/918816.html
Enter a battle among tennis legends. With 142 nations abattling to possess the Silver Trophy, the biggest war of the tennis world is about to begin! Play in the Davis CupTournament or challenge friends to fierce 2-on-2 multiplayer matches. Gain experience points for your team and pit them against your friends in multiplayer mode. Master your game on clay, carpet, and grass.

http://www.gamefaqs.com/portable/gbadvance/home/589383.html
Six opponents are ready to compete in the craziest tennis tournament ever seen; they'll stop at nothing to win the tournament, since the colossal prize will allow the winner to achieve his or her most far-fetched dream. Droopy dreams of renovating his house; McWolf wants to buy a luxury car to win the heart of the ravishing Bubbles Vavoom; as for Butch, victory would open the door to a career in lyrical opera. Droopy's Tennis Open offers players two different game modes for an unequalled game lifespan. Children and adults alike will delight in competing against their opponents, either according to the classic rules of tennis or in cartoon mode. As well as serves, backhands, lobs, smashes, and volleys, each player has fun traps and bonuses to distract, taunt and even attack a rival, including hilarious special attack moves: time bombs, multiple balls, a giant net, hammer-rackets, steam rollers, springs, meteorite balls, cages --and even pink hearts for Bubbles Vavoom.

http://www.gamefaqs.com/portable/gbadvance/home/560767.html
Mario Tennis: Power Tour is the portable sibling of Mario Power Tennis on the GameCube.

Aside from the standard spins, drop shots, lobs, and smashes available in a standard game of tennis, Power Tour adds power shots into the mix. Offensive power shots can be used to end a long-rally in your favor, while defensive power shots can help you make an impossible save.

Following in the footsteps of other portable Mario Sports titles, Power Tour adds a bit of RPG-like features into the mix of standard tennis action. Story mode has you guide either one of the rookie players, Max or Tina, through the ranks of competitors in the academy on their way to the Island Open Championships. Winning matches against opponents in the academy rewards you with points you can use to raise your stats. Matches can either be in one-on-one Singles matches, or you can team up with an AI-controlled partner in Doubles.

In between matches, you are also given the opportunity to explore the academy and participate in training courts and several mini-games, such as weight-lifting, to further build up your stats. Exhibition modes are also available for quick pick-up-and-play gameplay. Multiplayer modes include Singles and Doubles matches where you can choose from the stock cast of characters or you can also opt to use your powered up characters from the Story mode against each other.

http://www.mobygames.com/game/gameboy-advance/mario-tennis-power-tour
Next Generation Tennis is a Tennis game, developed and published by Wanadoo, which was released in Europe in 2002.

http://www.gamefaqs.com/portable/gbadvance/home/561799.html
Are you ready to take on the world's best players in the Tennis Masters Series? Master the individual skills and styles of one of 67 different players, and then compete in multiplayer singles or doubles matches or single-player tournaments. The game reproduces nine Masters Series tournaments from locations including Miami, Rome, and Paris. With your four different shots--power top spin, slice, flat, and lob--you can create up to 60 different moves to use during matches.

http://www.gamefaqs.com/portable/gbadvance/home/918725.html
Play as, or against, 16 of the world's best tennis players including Maria Sharapova, Venus Williams, Andy Roddick and Roger Federer or create "yourself" by customizing gender, name, skin color, hairstyle, outfit, and country. Refine your game and master every stroke, forehand, backhand, smash, lob and passing shot as you take on the pros on every surface and in tournaments like Wimbledon, the U.S. Open, and the Australian Open. Rise up through the ranks as you serve and volley your way to the Top Spin 2 Championship.

http://www.gamefaqs.com/portable/gbadvance/home/928317.html
Virtua Tennis arrives on the GBA, without the 'Virtual' 3D element, but with the same gameplay you expect from a tennis game.

Choose from a male or female player (or create your own) and take to the world tour, competing in various tournaments on clay, hardcourt, grass or indoors. Play against some of the best players in the world, both in singles and doubles, or compete against your friends in 4 player doubles.

Mini-games test your skills and improves the timing of your shots. Games range from Burger Chef (aim at the grid to decide what comes next on the burger), Disc Shooter (similar to Othello) and Bull's Eye, where you aim for the center of the target. Your created character will also improve depending on your success in each mini-game, with his or her stats increasing over time.

http://www.mobygames.com/game/gameboy-advance/virtua-tennis-
World Tennis Stars is a Tennis game, developed by Awesome Developments and published by Ignition Entertainment, which was released in 2004.

http://www.gamefaqs.com/portable/gbadvance/home/583068.html
Take to the court and experience the realism and authenticity of WTA Tour Tennis. First, choose one of 20 professional tennis players such as Serena Williams, Martina Hingis, and Jelina Dokic--each with lifelike facial expressions and movements. Then, engage in fast-paced competition on grass, clay, and hard surfaces. With simple controls, multiple levels of difficulty, and AI based on actual player attributes, WTA Tour Tennis challenges both newcomers and seasoned pros alike.

http://www.gamefaqs.com/portable/gbadvance/home/561915.html
All Star Tennis 2000 is a tennis game that brings the All Star Tennis series from the PlayStation and Nintendo 64 to the Game Boy Color.

The game allows you to play with tennis players such as Krajicek, Chang, Phillipousis and Novotna in various game modes: Tournament, Smash Tennis, Arcade, and Bomb Tennis. The last mode requires you to pay extra attention because bombs appear at each spot the ball bounces. These bombs explode after some seconds and will knock your player back. Arcade mode has you compete against all tennis players in succession. Smash Tennis allows you to play single matches, either with singles or doubles. You can play in eight different courts with different types of courts (grass, dirt, tarmac).

A two player mode is available with two Game Boy Colors and a Multi-Link Cable.

http://www.mobygames.com/game/gameboy-color/all-star-tennis-2000_
Mario Tennis for the Game Boy Color is a much different experience than its N64 effort. In addition to the core gameplay found in the N64 version, the GBC version features an RPG-style world that allows you to work your way up through the ranks at the Royal Tennis Academy.

The main mode, Mario Tour, has you starting off as a Rookie with low stats. By completing training programs and defeating other students, you're able to gain experience points, which allow you to boost your tennis stats. When you're not playing tennis, you can spend time wandering the Academy grounds: talking to other students, or just taking in the sights and sounds.

In addition to the main game, there's also an exhibition mode (singles or doubles) for quick-play. And, if you get tired of playing the computer, the game supports the Game Link Cable for play against a friend.

http://www.mobygames.com/game/gameboy-color/mario-tennis-
This is a 3D Simulation Tennis game based on the famous Roland Garros franchise. 16 men and 16 women play on 8 different courts. You can choose Singles, Doubles or Mixed Doubles. Each win puts cash in your pocket towards rackets and games with more skilled players.

There are 3 game modes: Tournament, Exhibition, and Practice. In addition, there 12 rackets to unlock, 8 hidden players and 2 bonus courts, plus a 4-player multiplayer option.

http://www.mobygames.com/game/gameboy-color/roland-garros-french-open-2000
Snoopy Tennis lets the player take control of Charles Schultz's famous Peanuts Gang and compete in a series of tennis games similar to Mario Tennis. The player can initially choose from eight characters to play (Snoopy, Charlie Brown, Lucy, Linus, Franklin, Sally, Peppermint Patty & Schroeder) each with their unique strengths and weaknesses. By winning against certain opponents and various modes the player can unlock an additional four characters (Pigpen, Marcie, Rerun and Woodstock).

There are four different courts to choose from, a forest location, the beach, the schoolyard and Charlie Brown's backyard, with an additional four locations unlocked during gameplay. There are six different single player game modes to choose from:

- Normal, which is a best two-out-of-three game set.

- Power, where the player plays a game of tennis with the ability to use power-ups during the match.

- Points Win, which the player with the most points within a two minutes wins the match.

- Sudden Win, which has no service breaks and the first player with two victories wins the game.

- Squash, which is still a normal game of tennis, but adds walls to both sides of the court.

There is also the Championship mode where the player takes on several different characters on different courts in order to win the Peanuts' Tennis Championship and unlock other characters under different difficulty settings (easy, medium and hard). There is also a two-player mode using a Game Link and supports three languages to choose from (English, French and Spanish).

http://www.mobygames.com/game/gameboy-color/snoopy-tennis
