Based on the live action film released in 2004 (which in turn was based on the 1960s series starring marionettes), Thunderbirds stars Alan, Tin-Tin, and Fermat, three children whose guardians are part of the International Rescue team. The player takes control of all three children as they go through training and are then forced to travel around the world to save members of International Rescue from an evil villain known as The Hood.

The game takes place in locales such as the International Rescue island, Africa, and even outer space. Each of the three characters has his or her own unique abilities that the player must use to solve puzzles and advance through a level. Alan has strength and jumping ability, Tin-Tin has telekinetic powers that are used to move objects, and Fermat can hack computers and roll through holes. While the majority of the gameplay is primarily composed of solving puzzles from an overhead view, there are also flight action sequences where the player can fly one of the many vehicles known as the Thunderbirds.

http://www.mobygames.com/game/gameboy-advance/thunderbirds
Join the Tracy Family in old-school gaming in 7 mini games accross the whole wide world. Single player and story-driven, do YOU have what it takes to thwart the evil Hood? This game allows players to control Thunderbirds vehicles 1-4, The mole and FAB1 in a variety of mini games. TB1, a recon, and combat craft is a side scrolling mini-game involving bombing and shooting ground & air targets while looking for people to resuce and collecting intel on the area. TB2, the rescue craft is controlled from a top-down perspective and involves puzzle solving and exploration. TB3, the space shuttle, is a vertical-scrolling, top-down, old school shooter and TB4, the submarine, is a collection and combat game played from a side-on perspective. TB5, the Tracy Family Space Station is Brain often hangs out, updating the player with useful intel and story elements.

The Mole is a subterranean digging machine and gameplay in this mode involves exploration, combat and collection - though on the surface it's reminiscent of DigDug. FAB1, Lady Penelope's Rolls Royce is a time-based, top-down vertical scrolling driving game that captures the feeling of Chase HQ from the arcades of old. Each mission involves different combinations of these craft and they occur in places as diverse as Egypt, Bermuda, Nepal, the Rainforests of South America and London. The story reveals clues as to The Hood's intentions, but will you be able to piece them together before Brains? You have 28 levels before the Game is up...

http://www.mobygames.com/game/gameboy-color/thunderbirds-are-go
