Our hero Boots Barker, who was thrown out of a plane, parachuted safely into the African jungle below. He was knocked unconcious on landing and when he awoke found to his horror that he was encased in a huge Voodoo Mask that extended from waist to head. It wouldn't come off. 

As he soon found out, an evil witch doctor who ruled the jungle was responsible. The doctor resides in an evil fortress which is magically protected so you can't enter. But you can get to him by collecting eight magical pins and sticking them into a voodoo doll of the doctor's likeness. Five of the pins are in the temples devoted to various animal gods, and the remaining three can be earned by completing three tasks; returning the missing lion cub to its mother is the  first. We don't know the other tasks at this time.
     
As you wander around the jungle you will be attacked by hordes of creepy-crawlies that will sap your strength until you eventually kill them. This can be done with your pair of boots that you are initially wearing. The witch doctor also owns a chain of stores scattered throughout the
jungle. They are only open in the daytime (creatures sleep at night). You  can use your acquired jewels and bananas to buy items like a map  ( sold in 4 parts), machete for hacking through growth, a knife useful for killing nasties, extra lives, a first aid kit, scrolls with hints, and several other items. Each store carries different items so you need to visit many stores. You will need to experiment to find the uses of some of your purchased items.
     
Pressing the space bar accesses your inventory screen. You can select  the item to use with the joystick. While you can jump on nasties to kill them, it is often less dangerous to switch to a knife to kill them from a distance. But remember you can jump pits unless you are wearing your boots. And remember that when you are down to your last life it is best to activate your extra life before you die. It is also best to save the game at crucial times. For example, the Eagle temple has several traps like the Indiana Jones style rolling rock that is tripped when you collect a gem down a long passageway. Since several pasageway walls are movable, an escape must be planned or you will be crushed by the rock. Besides you must be quick.
     
Game saves and loads can be tripped by pressing the space bar and bringing up a menu. Press F1 to load a previously saved game, or F2 to save your current game. It asks for a file name. Two saves fit on the game disk, and I believe you can put in a blank formatted disk into the internal drive and it will save to it. Remember to replace the game disk since it needs it for various functions.
    
You can earn extra money and health points by visiting the casino (open only at night). You play the slot machine. Another profitable method is to visit the banana grove on an island and collect bananas.

By POSTCARD MAN 11/5/91
_________________________
CHEATS:

All the nasties go to sleep at night.  When you pause a game, the
day/night timer still runs.  Thus it is possible to play only during
the safe night periods, and pausing the game during the dangerous
daylight.

MISSION 1: Feed the monkey on your back bananas.  Eventually, this will give him a bad case of diarrhoea, and he'll run off to a secluded spot.

MISSION 2: Reunite the lion cub with his mum.  Look in the tree trunks.

MISSION 3: Save a sick native, buy medicine.
