Welcome, humble players to the realm of the ninja. I Mori, will train you in the arts of Ninjitsu. You must be prepared for the amazing journey you are about to take. Never forget... a ninja is heart, body, mind and spirit. When the four work together as one ... a ninja cannot be beaten!

As Rocky, you must be the strength of the team. Use your gifts well to overcome great adversity. As Colt, you must be the speed of the team. Control your temper and use the inner energy as a powerful weapon. As Tum Tum, you are the stealth of the team. Use your small size as an advantage against those who do not know your fury. (Oh, Turn Turn, cut down on the snacks!)

Work well together young ones. Count on each other's strength to help you conquer all of your goals. Learn well and never fear the shadows, for they are like your brothers.

The story unfolds as Grandpa Mori leads the 3 Ninjas (Rocky, the eldest brother, Colt, the middle brother, and Tum Tum, the youngest brother) in the final stages of his Ninjitsu training program. Old Mori may look like an old man, but he sure doesn't move like one as he eludes the young warriors time after time. No one is hurt as they scuffle and toss each other across the forest in the session.

Once the training is complete, Mori tells the youngsters that he must return to his village in Japan to present a ceremonial dagger to the winner of a martial arts tournament. Legend has it that the dagger makes up part of the necessary "key" to unlock a mystical cave of gold. Mori never fell for the legend, but his rival of long ago does. Word has spread of Mori's return to his native land and evil plots have begun to rid Mori of his coveted dagger.

Can the 3 ninjas save their grandfather and deliver the dagger to the rightful owner?

--From the Genesis 3 Ninjas Kick Back instruction manual.

Overview:

Are there really three warriors in this game, or is there just one who is schizophrenic? Like Jethro and Jethrine, we only see one at a time. And for that matter, was there truly a Minnie Mouse or was Micky just filmed with double exposure wearing a dress? The world may never know.

This is a fun game, no real violence. Lots of action on the screen, falling rocks, swinging vines, etc. Plenty to keep you running, fighting and searching. The scenery is incredibly colorful and imaginative. Swords slicing through the air make crisp dangerous sounds in addition to the visual spectacle and even falling rocks make distinctive crumbling noises as they break apart, not just land, on the ground. In all fascinating graphics and sounds. Almost like visiting New York Central Park, except with fewer killers running loose.

There are six stages in the game: The Woods, The Cabin and The Cave (both in stage two), The Hospital, The Japanese Garden, The Dojo and Castle Osaka, all providing interesting and varying battle scenes. Expect the difficulty to increase as you progress through the game. So take care to study how various villains are defeated so that you can minimize the injuries that you incur.

Take notice: Stage One is no cakewalk because if he catches you, Grandpa Mori beats the stuffing out of you for your own good.

Be advised, according to the manual, only when you are playing in the easy mode can you switch to another character and then only after you have won a stage and entered the password that you will receive. So choose wisely. You wouldn't want your friends visiting while you were the character "Tum Tum".

Directions:

Each brother has special weapons, skills, and moves as listed below:

Rocky uses a staff, has a spinning kick and collects Throwing Stars for tossing at enemies. If Rocky finds a Green Mask, he gets an extra life

Colt uses a sword, does a spinning blade and collects daggers for tossing at enemies. If Colt finds a Blue Mask, he gets an extra life.

Tum Tum uses a Sai (jabbing weapon), uses a rolling attack and collects small Sais for tossing at enemies. If Tum Tum finds a Yellow Mask, he gets an extra life.

Controls:

A Button: Attack
B Button: Jump
C Button: Bomb
A + B: Special Move
B + A: Flying Kick
UP + A: Overhead Slash
UP + B: Grab Hang-Ons
DOWN + B: Platform Drop
UP + RIGHT: Crawl Right
DOWN + LEFT: Crawl Left
Start Button: Start / Select

Reviewer: WillyTheRat
http://www.consoleclassix.com/genesis/3_ninjas_kick_back.html
