Way back in history, I mean way back, before microwaves and MTV (man! how did they live?) there lived two good friends, Asterix and Obelix. These two lived in Gaul (which is northern France, before France became a bunch of scaredy babies), and the bad guys at the time were the Romans (a bunch of people with little swords and dresses). Well, these Romans kidnapped the druid of Asterix's village and now it's up to Asterix and Obelix to get him back. Good luck, boys.

Asterix and the Great Rescue is a wonderful game with awesome graphics that reflect not only the French Comic that it was modeled after, but also the TV series that followed. The music closely follows the score from the TV series, and the story line of the game follows the crazy antics that Asterix and Obelix usually get themselves into.

Directions:

Asterix and the Great Rescue is a fun but difficult game that takes you through six levels, each with 4 stages. The levels are the Gaulish Village, the Roman encampment, the Forest, Germany, the Roman Galley, and Rome itself.

After you complete each stage, or if you die, you are given a choice as to whether you want to continue playing with the character you had or choose the other.

The differences between Asterix and Obelix are as follows: Asterix is small and fast, and can jump high and crawl under spaces; whereas Obelix is big and strong, with a harder punch that does more damage, and can break through objects that Asterix can not.

At the end of the fourth stage of each level (except for the Gaulish village) you will have to fight a boss, which is slightly bigger than the normal enemies and usually requires patience and some sort of strategy to beat. Level 2 and 3 you fight a Roman Centurion, Level 4 you fight the Germanic chief, Level 5 you fight Brutus, and Level 6 you fight Julius Caesar, the mastermind behind the kidnap of your druid.

Along your way you will pick up various items that will help you. Getafix (the druid) has left behind potions that do different things, such as create clouds that you can stand on for a short period of time, and others that explode and can be used as bombs, which you can toggle trough by holding "up" and pushing "C". Also along your way you will pick up food, that restores your health, which is located in the top left of the screen; coins, which add to your score and can give you more lives if you collect enough; and sickles, that will make you temporarily invincible, much like the stars in Super Mario Bros. All in all, Asterix and the Great Rescue is a fun game, and you shouldn't let its difficulty discourage you. So sit down, log in, and have fun! 

Controls:

A Button: JUMP
B Button: ATTACK
C Button: THROW WEAPON
Start Button: PAUSE

Hints:

PASSWORDS
2-INSULA
3-CONDOR
4-VIENNA
5-AVALON
6-DULCIS 

Reviewer: grimjockey
http://www.consoleclassix.com/genesis/asterix_great_rescue.html
