Based on the popular MTV cartoon, Beavis and Butthead the game is a lot better than you might think. Take on the role of Beavis and/or Butthead in order to solve wacky puzzles, and get the best of Todd, Anderson, the Principal, and other characters from the show. All in a quest to find the missing pieces of Beavis and Butthead's GWAR tickets. Huh-huh. Uh-huh-huh.

The graphics and sound for Beavis and Butthead the game are right in line with the cartoon, meaning it's not done very well but it has the same look, sound, and feel of watching the show, only you're in control now. Which may not be a comfortable place for some of us.

Anyways, give this game a try. Wander around, get into some trouble, blow some stuff up, have a good time. Try not to get your butt kicked, cuz when these two die they are definitely not going to Heaven.

Directions:

This game fits squarely into the category of Platform/Action/Adventure/Puzzler. I think. Is it any good? Well, if you enjoyed the show you're sure to enjoy the game, if not, well, you might like it anyway.

The game doesn't depend heavily on any knowledge of Beavis and Butthead trivia or anything like that, but you do have to be able to think like a couple of teenage morons occasionally. I mean the puzzles are based on the sort of thing these guys would really do, like blowing up a toilet with a cherry bomb, stuff like that. But the point is, the puzzles are actually entertaining and require some thought, unlike a lot of games that would like to be adventure/puzzlers but take themselves way too seriously and aren't any fun.

In two-player mode, you play together, one of you controlling each of our heroes. In one-player mode you control one at a time, while the other mindlessly follows you around. You can switch between Beavis and Butthead from the Items Menu.

You start at the house, sitting on the couch in front of the TV. You have to pick up the remote control, which you then use to navigate through the different levels. Basically your mission is to pick up various items found around the game world, and gather information, then use the items to complete tasks which will help you find bits of the tickets. Along the way you can pawn certain items for cash, which you can spend on weapons and other useful stuff. 

Controls:

A Button: Run
B Button: Jump, Switch Characters from Item Menu
C Button: Use Item
Start Button: Start, Items Menu

Hints:

All Items and Full Tickets
Enter the password XBNEj JDI-x sVpGD to get all the items in the game and complete concert tickets. Use this code if you really love GWAR and want to go to the concert without playing the game at all.

- Enter Burger World -
To enter Burger World type BUTTHEAD in the lock at the employers door.

- Other bomb uses -
The bomb is not only used to blow up the drink machine at the drive-in theater. If you're low on health and you're desperate to get some without risking your life to kill enemies, use the bomb to blow up toilets. It will leave behind food to get a little healthier.

Reviewer:

http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/genesis/home/586058.html
http://www.consoleclassix.com/genesis/beavis_and_butt_head.html
