While most superheroes rely on their extraordinary abilities and special talents, Boogerman is more conventional in using his overly powerful mucous and his penchant for flatulence in the fight against evil. Take control of the slightly slimy hero as he tries to thwart the nefarious Booger Meister and his plans for world domination. Battle your way through more than 20 levels of snot-slinging action in places like The Pits, Mucous Mountain, Flatulent Swamps, Sewer City, and Boogerville facing off against four heinous bosses and 20 henchmen. With its tongue-in-cheek perspective on action heroes and plenty of disgustingly funny characters, BOOGERMAN: A Pick and Flick Adventure is a real?gas!

Directions:

To complete this disgusting and hilarious adventure you'll need to use your insane assortment of weapons. The most important item in the game is your string of boogers you can use to fling at your enemies. Other means of defense are burping, farting, and stomping. You'll also need to collect plungers for extra lives. So let the snot fly, this game is gonna get you hooked. 8/10

Controls:

A Button: Release Gas
B Button: Mucous Attack
Y Button: Jump
Start Button: Start/Pause 

Hints:

- Fly on screen. -
Anytime during the game, press:
A + B + C and Start on controller 2.
Use controller one and the D=pad to make Boogerman fly around the screen to collect icons and otherwise.
Just do the same input to make Boogerman move again.

- Level Select -
When on the title screen, press: Up, down, left, right, C, B, A. Then, press up and down to select any level. 

- Credits scrolling, let's have fun. -
After you beat the game, while the credits start to scroll, you can walk into the bathroom and change into civilian clothing. You can use the duster and everything too. Anytime you want you can walk back in and change back into BoogerMan. You can even fly around. Just remember that the door on the right is the bathroom. The one on the left just makes you exit.

http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/genesis/home/586071.html
http://www.consoleclassix.com/genesis/boogerman_pick_flick_adventure.html
