Go back in time to a bygone civilization, the ancient world of Phoenicia. And play the game that originated among the Phoenician merchants - Columns. It's incredibly captivating. You'll find yourself losing track of time. Yet it's very simple. You don't have to be a game whiz to play at the hardest level.

--From the Genesis Columns instruction manual.

Overview:

Columns is one of the three games that put not only the Genesis, but Sega on the map. Columns was one of the biggest games to fight off Tetris and if you play you'll know why. It's is just as addictive and very brightly colored, with something other than just blocks!

The feel of the game is wonderful, setting times back to Greek and Roman, with the touch of jewels. It makes you feel like a god as you control the jewels. Sliding your bright colored pieces across the screen is easy and at high speeds, can be mesmerizing. The colors just make it beautiful to look at.

The music keeps you in pace with the game, it speeds up in danger, and when your level increases. Just as in Tetris, Columns allows a choice of music, all with the Greek and Roman feel as well. It keeps you wrapped with the game.

Thankfully in Columns there are tons of bonuses, especially for eliminating several rows of jewels at one time. Their are also special jewels that knock out all of the jewels it touches and and other jewels on the screen that match them. This can be a big help when your stack is getting to the top, and can boost your score a great deal.

The addition of Doubles play and Flash Columns, is warmly welcomed and keeps the game from going stale too fast. With so many varying levels and faster and faster game play, you'll never want to stop. I barely want to stop to write this review, I am addicted to this Columns world.

Genesis did a great job competing with Nintendo for a heck of a puzzler. If there's anything that beat Tetris, it's Columns. I suggest you give this one a try, especially to see why Sega was so amazing

I give Columns a 10 out of 10!

Aggort's Choice Game!

Directions:

In a new form of Tetris, this puzzler's objective is to clear jewels by placing them three or more in a row, which can be horizontal, vertical or diagonal.

Choose from three methods of play, Arcade, Original, or Flash. You can also pick one, two, or co-op players. In Flash, the flashing jewels must be removed. In the other two forms you must keep your columns low enough, so they do not go off the screen or you lose. As the game continues, the speed will increase and jewels become even more scarce. Keep up with the speed and increasing difficulty, and defeat your opponent!

Controls:

A Button: Switch Column Up
B Button: Switch Column Down
C Button: Switch Column
Start Button: Pause

Hints:

Pace Yourself
On the more difficult levels, don't let the fast-falling jewels scare you. Follow them carefully and play it smart. If you get too nervous, you'll lose focus and the game!

- Columns Extra Magic Jewels -
There is a way to trick the game into giving you a second magic jewel. To do this you must set up the screen in a certain way. Have one row of the normal jewels stacked up almost to the top of the playfield. There must be vertical space for only two of the three jewels in the next block to come on the screen. Watch the "Next Block" preview box. When you see that the magic jewel block is next, get ready to quickly move it on top of your prepared stack. After the magic jewel eliminates the 'touching' color jewels, all of the remaining jewels will drop down as will the one magic jewel that was off the screen. This magic jewel will drop down and eliminate another group of colored jewels.

Reviewer: Aggort
http://www.consoleclassix.com/genesis/columns.html
http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/genesis/home/586114.html
This game is mesmerizing and addictive. Columns is a puzzle block elimination game. Drop three or more like colored blocks on top of each other and they'll vanish. The game pieces are beautiful jewels which are just fun to look at. In this particular Columns game you work your way through a stream of opponents, defeating them by lasting longer, i.e. having their screen pile up before yours.

Directions:

Get three or more like colored blocks in a row to make them vanish and score points. Points allow you to accomplish other tasks like bumping up your opponent's screen. The crush bar is affected by points, magic jewels, items, and flashing jewels.

The crush bar will rise up under your (or your opponent's) jewels causing them to be closer to the ceiling and closer to stacking, and it can also break any jewels currently falling on the screen. Be careful that your opponent doesn't break any special ones that you have. Having at least 10 points will allow you to knock your crush bar down one line and your opponent's up one line, 20 points= two lines and 30 points= three lines. A magic jewel will allow you to do these things and more, but they are rare. A magic jewel has two triangles and a square that flash crazily. When the triangle on the bottom points down you will knock your crush bar down with it. If you rotate the pieces so that the triangle on the bottom points up, you will knock your opponent's crush bar up. Having the square on the bottom allows you to pick a jewel to set it on and all of that type of jewel will vanish.

Pressing start takes you to a new menu where you can use items. Just hit start then B when you have the cursor next to the item you want to use. You will pick items up after defeating enemies. An hour glass allows you to continue if you lose two out of three matches against the computer. A magic gem will get you a magic jewel column to use. The bell will eliminate all jewels on your screen. Awesome huh? The heavy weight knocks your crush bar all the way down. The barrier will prevent your crush bar from being moved up for a time, and the antidote will cure any flashing jewel effects you have.

You will get a flashing jewel if you get a combo of 3 or more. That means that you clear a set of jewels and, as any that were on top of those drop into place, more clear and then any on those drop... and so on. The effects are random, but all bad for your opponent (and you if they do it to you). It can cause the screen to turn black and white and since color is the only distinguishing variable for some of the jewels it can cause mistakes. It can switch the left and right controls, reversing the direction you need to press. It can flip the screen upside down. It can make jewels drop faster. It can up the crush bar. It can make you unable to rotate the jewels. If you get a flashing jewel in the jewels that are already settled on your screen, it will stay there, but if it's falling you only have a limited amount of time to use it.

Play by yourself or against one or two friends. 

Controls:

A Button: Crushes your opponent
B Button: Rotates jewels
Start Button: Start game/ Pause

Hints:

Magic Jewels
When you use it, the best use is determined by circumstance, but when you use the square on the bottom, take quick stock of your board and get rid of the piece that you have the most of on the screen. This increases your chances of combos and lowers your screen the most. There's no need to try to plan it. While it doesn't always gain you combos, it does help to make them more available. 

Reviewer: fallenrain
http://www.consoleclassix.com/genesis/columns_3.html
