Sketch Turner is an artist in New York. One day Sketch is drawing, and a then there's a thunderstorm in the city. A bolt of lightning hits Sketch's image, and brings it to life. The drawing wants to be a real being, not just a drawing, but that is only possible if Sketch is dead. If the drawing becomes real, it will take over the world. However, the drawing cannot kill Sketch in the regular world, so it sends Sketch to the Comix Zone!

Directions:

The game is like being in a comic book. In each cell there is someone to fight, something to break, and sometimes there's stuff to take that can be used as a weapon. In most cells you will have to fight someone. When you beat him, you can move to another comic cell.

Controls:

A Button: Attack
B Button: Jump
C Button: Block
X Button: Drop or use item
Y Button: Drop or use item
Z Button: Drop or use item
Start Button: Pause
Mode Button: N/A

Hints:

Super Hero Guy
Go to the options screen and select Jukebox and play tunes 1, 3, 5, 6, 3, 9, 6, 4, 9, 5 and press Start. Then play the game and pause it. Now press A, C, B, B, A, C, C, A, B, A, Left, Right, Right, A, B, B, C, Left, Up, Down, A then unpause and you will transform into the superhero guy. Note you must do this code EXTREMELY FAST or it will not work. 

- Stage Select -
Go to the jukebox mode and place the red checker on the following numbers in order, pressing C at each one:
14, 15, 18, 5, 13, 1, 3, 18, 15, 6.
Now, highlight a number from 1 to 6 and press C to warp to the corresponding stage.

- Unlimited health -
If you want unlimited go to jukebox in the options menu and push C on these numbers.3, 12,17,2, 2, 10, 2, 7, 7,11.You should hear skecth say ''oh yeah''.

- View Credits -
At the Options Mode enter the following code...
Press A + B + C
Then as soon as you press them you should view the credits.

- Fart -
In some areas,you can make Sketch fart my constantly pressing DOWN on the D-Pad.

- Sega Plug -
At any time during the main game, press start to pause. After a few seconds, Sketch will yell, ''Sega!''.

- Paper Airplane -
Anytime during the game simply press and hold the Punch Button. After a second or so Sketch will tear a piece of paper from the background and make a paper airplane out of it. The plane will travel to the edge of the panel and circle back around. The plane does massive damage to all enemies, objects, and Sketch himself so be careful. As know that you lose a considerable amount of health when creating the plane.

Reviewer:

http://www.mobygames.com/game/genesis/comix-zone
