Cross Fire is a pretty cool hybrid shooter/action game that came out in the early days of the Genesis (around 91 I believe). It combines a vertical shooter with a vertical scrolling action game, picture a mix of Tiger Heli and Commando and you have an idea of what this game is like. It also features some of the best ''engrish'' of the 16bit era, stuff like ''The king of narcotic is vanished from this world'' and ''Hope you make a success! Good luck!'' are worth every penny of the $5 you'll spend on acquiring this little gem.

As I mentioned above, this is a hybrid sort of game. You start out by selecting one of three different missions to tackle (there are 6 in all), then you'll proceed to where you can buy upgrades. You can buy weapons, bombs, and armor for your helicopter, or weapons and extra lives for your soldier. Each mission will award you a different amount of money, I recommend you do the hardest of the first 3 missions right off the bat so you can afford the laser gun, you're practically invincible with it.

After the briefing you'll start out flying through a quick level in your helicopter, blasting everything in sight. You have bombs you can use, or a turbo boost that gives you temporary invincibility. Once you reach the end, you'll see a cinema of your chopper decending, and this is where the game gets interesting. You'll see a close up of your chopper at the bottom of the screen, and you get to fly over the enemy base basically killing everything that moves with impunity, you're invincible in the 10 or 15 seconds this part lasts.

Now you bust out on foot and run through the level like in Commando. The control scheme is pretty good, pressing back or back diagonially makes you shoot forward in the opposite direction, so you can walk backward and shoot everything ahead of you. If you hit B your guy jumps in the air and you can shoot turrets that are up on ledges or walls. The C button calls in the chopper, your guy will dive onto the ground and you'll get the close up chopper view and be able to kill anything that moves for a few seconds.

At the end of each foot level there's a door you have to enter, inside is a super short level where you just need to find the hostage and kill a few enemies. It's quick and easy.

Now you take off again in the chopper and fly through another shooter level, fighting a boss at the end. Once you defeat the boss it's back to the briefing room for some more sweet engrish!

All in all it comes together really well, and has enough variety to keep you entertained. The added bonus of getting to buy new weapons and bombs makes the game even better, you'll need to experiment to find whatever setup you like best.

Reviewer: ArmamentArmedArm
http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/genesis/review/R46872.html
