Deadly Moves was a fighting game developed by Kaneko in 1993 and was released at the height of the fighting game craze, in which developers released many hacked-up fighting games to catch a profit, the quality of these games wasn't really an issue. Rarely, some of these game had some redeeming qualities to them (Games like Fatal Fury and Art of Fighting), while others (read: most of them) didn't. There was also a middle-ground area in which games had some good ideas, but just didn't execute them well enough. Guess which category this game falls under?

The gameplay in this game is best described a poor-man's Street Fighter II because the gameplay engine is solid enough, but it's a bit too sluggish for my liking, and needs some tuning up. Moves can be a bit of a chore to pull off because of the sluggish game engine, this is the game's fatal flaw because some of the moves (mainly the special moves) are too damned hard to execute. This game does have some very unique features in it, for example, you can only play as one character in the game, you see, the game follows a story, and the main character in it is the character you play is, throughout the game, he gets stronger. The game also takes place in a 3D-esque area, you can move all around the area of a given stage, and you use a jump button to jump at your opponent, too bad this feature makes it harder than it should be to line up attacks on your opponents, the effort was there, and this idea was great in theory, but a little lacking in execution.

Nonetheless, this is one of the bright spots of the game.

The controls in the game are good, but they really needed some work. The controls are responsive enough, and they would be great for a game that only took place on one plane, but this game takes place on many planes, herein lies the problem. The characters have the ability t move all over the place, but the moves in the game don't you have to be really close to your opponent if you hope to land ANYTHING at all in the game. The controls are also a bit unresponsive, this would be tolerable in a 2D fighting game, but not in one in which the characters can move all over the place. The unresponsive control will cause you to miss many, many moves. You can learn to adapt to the control, but you shouldn't have to in the first place.

The graphics in the game are very, very disappointing. It's not that they're bad, it's just that they're very unispired. All of the characters are cliches or stereotypes. The main character is a martial artist, there's a big, lumbering character, and a big silver guy (God, what was it with some developers and big silver characters?) The game does have some very original and well executed backgrounds and playing areas. One of the game's levels takes place on a moving raft, this is a really nice level because it adds to the feel of the fight, and it gets you more into the game, a moving raft level was also used in Virtua Fighter 2, coincidence? Another innovative level in this game takes place on a moving train cart, which is moving down train tracks at an alarming speed, this really helps you get into the frantic feel of the game and adds quite a bit to the feel of the game.

The sound in the game is pretty generic across the board, with the exception of the in-game music. The music in the game is very generic and does nothing to get your blood pumping, nor does it fit the level it's used in. The sound effects for the moves in the game are, for the most part, great. They usually fit the move that they are based on. The sound effects used in menus are very generic and consist of the usual "Whooshes."

Overall, this game is a solid fighting game that comes up a bit short. I can really tell that the developers put a lot of effort into the game, and I respect that, but the game still has some flaws. The game's very innovative ideas are deflated because they weren't executed as well as they could have been. The game is still worth the price of admission just to see the game's innovative features, they might not be done as well as they could have been, but the effort was definitely there.

This game is not Nomad-friendly. The game's "Go anywhere' nature does not translate well to the Nomad due to the system's blurry screen, which will also get in the way of your moves because it makes it harder to judge how far away your opponent is from you. Also, the game's moving backgrounds, particularly the train one, are really hurt by the blurry screen. The sound and control are intact, but the gameplay and graphics take a huge hit due to the Nomad.

http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/genesis/review/R22023.html
