"The devils Yohko fights in the cartoon must have made this game to get revenge on her"

I should have trusted my initial instinct. As soon as I laid eyes on this game, three warning signals flashed in my mind. First, the game was by a publisher I had never heard of before. Second, 90% of games based on anime turn out to be mediocre rehashes designed by money-grubbing developers hoping to lure in fans. And last, but far from least, I didn't even know there had been a Devil Hunter Yohko video game. These three facts should have sent me walking in the other direction. But, like all the other times I've come face to face with a game based on one of my favorite animes, my inner otaku won over my common sense, and I wound up trying it. (For those of you who don't know, ''otaku'', basically means ''obsessed anime geek'' in Japanese.) And, as I initially expected, Devil Hunter Yohko's video game turns out to be an uninspired romp through all too familiar territory.

The story of our Devil Hunter heroine is a simple one. Yohko Mano is your average Japanese 16-year-old girl who is trying to lead an average life. You can imagine it is hard to lead an average life when your mom's a nymphomaniac who brings home a new boyfriend every night, and your grandma's a ninja who constantly launches surprise attacks on Yohko, just to keep her on her toes. Despite all this, Yohko is your typical schoolgirl - Struggling to get by day-by-day, and dreaming of introducing herself to the cute guy at school.

Unfortunately, poor Yohko's life becomes even weirder when bizarre events begin to take place. Yohko's nerdy best friend (who has always had a crush on her) begins dressing in cool clothes, and hitting on her sexually, she is attacked by a monster while she is swimming in a public pool, and her other best friend has gone psycho, and is trying to kill her. It is eventually revealed to Yohko, by her grandma, that this is the beginning of Yohko's pre-destined life mission.

Every woman born into the Mano family has taken up the role of the legendary Devil Hunters, warriors who battle demons and other forces of darkness who threaten Earth. The realm of the demons (which is parallel to our world) is in cross-dimensional alignment with our own, which could cause a portal to open, allowing the demons to cross over, and launch an all-out attack. The demons are trying to destroy Yohko before she can take her rightful place as the 108th generation Devil Hunter. She must stop the demons before they can perform the ritual that will mean the end of the human race.

It's certainly easy to see how a story like that could be adapted into a video game. Unfortunately, like most anime-based games, the programmers decided to make a generic example of a popular video game genre, and just stick a popular character in the lead.

Devil Hunter Yohko is a standard side scrolling platformer that we've seen too many times before. There's certainly nothing wrong with that. I could easily see Yohko starring in a Castlevania or Strider-style game. Unfortunately, there's very little imagination in this game. You trek left to right through areas that seem all too familiar (caverns, forests, water-based areas...) fighting enemies that seem all too familiar (wolfmen, fishmen, plant monsters, etc.). The levels are basically straightforward the whole way through. There's a little bit of exploration and hidden areas to discover in some levels, but not enough to save the gameplay from complete mediocrity.

The only part of the game that the programmers seem to have put some original thought into is Yohko's weapon system. The Devil Hunter-in-training is armed with a basic sword that she can use to slash through her opponents. However, she can also use the sword's power to create a shield of energy around her that protects her for a limited time. She can even use the shield as a weapon in a way. After she's summoned it, Yohko can toss the energy-based shield at her enemies, destroying any in her path. She can do this one of two ways - She can either throw it straight out, thereby losing the shield, or she can use it as a boomerang. It does less damage this way, but at least Yohko still has protection when it comes back to her. This is actually a really cool system, and I wish someone else had thought of it, so it could appear in a better game.

As cool as the weapon system is, it's hard to enjoy it with Yohko's sloppy controls. It's not that she doesn't respond well, it's that she moves so slowly. This is quite a switch from the agile and quick Devil Hunter fans are familiar with in the cartoon. It's often hard to dodge attacks in this game, because Yohko reacts so slowly. It's not fair when you find yourself jumping and trying to slash your sword in mid-air to strike an enemy on a platform above you, only to have the enemy attack first, due to Yohko's slow speed. It also seems hard sometimes to switch directions while Yohko is in the middle of jumping. This is a cardinal sin when it comes to platform games. You should be able to make split-second change in directions at any time.

Unfortunately, the gameplay is not the worst part of this game. Where the game really takes a dive is in its presentation aspects. The graphics are probably the worse I've seen in a Genesis game. Yohko herself looks no better than a mid-generation NES character sprite. She's sparsely detailed, has no real distinguishing features, and looks rather blocky. The areas you explore are dull and uninteresting, and don't even look like they push the limited Genesis color palette. The only graphical highlight in this game comes during the title screen, with a large anime-style drawing of Yohko in a cool battle pose. This sets up your expectations, only to have them dashed to bits by the small and blocky characters that appear in the actual game itself.

The sound, unfortunately, is worse than the graphics. Now, a lot of people have criticized the Genesis' sound capabilities in the past, but I know it can do a lot better than this. The music can best be described as high-pitched. It's so high and shrill that it won't be long until you find yourself reaching for the Mute button. The sound effects don't hold up much better, and mainly sound weak and uninspired. The graphics and sound are a deadly combination that pound the final rusty nail into this game's coffin.

Basically, this is another case of wasted opportunity. Like I said earlier, I can easily see the Yohko characters starring in a high-profile action adventure game. The programmers just did not take full advantage of the license. The game makes no effort to capture the action and humor of the 6-part anime series. (Although, the show's humor is a bit racy and sex-driven, so maybe it would have been hard to retain that in a video game.) It seems like the people who made this game came up with a cool weapon system, then just kind of lost interest in the project after that.

I can't recommend this game to anyone, not even to Yohko fans. You're better off just re-watching the anime episodes if you need your fix. It's too bad Yohko couldn't hunt down the devils who made this game, that's all I have to say.

Reviewer's Score: 3/10, Originally Posted: 06/14/02, Updated 06/09/03

Reviewer: YusakuG
http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/genesis/review/R35522.html
