Double Dragon 5 is very different from its predecessors. This is the first Double Dragon that wasn't a side scroller. This game was actually a fighter. It's a lot like Street Fighter, or Mortal Kombat. There are three modes of gameplay, tournament, versus, and quest mode. In tournament mode, you will fight people at random, it's a good way to prepare for quest mode. In versus mode, you will need a friend to beat up. In quest mode, it will tell you a sort of cheesy story as to why you have to fight all these people. It's not a bad game except for the fact it's been done a million times, but I guess it's a decent change from the same old Double Dragon story. If you are a fan of fighting games or a fan of Double Dragon, this game is for you. The only difference I can see between this one and the SNES version is that this version features blood.

Directions:

Fight your way through tournament mode, or battle head to head with a friend. 

Controls:

A Button: Fast Kick
B Button: Med. Kick
C Button: Strong Kick
X Button: Fast Punch
Y Button: Med. Punch
Z Button: Strong Punch
Start Button: Start/Pause
Mode Button: None

Hints:

- Disable "Dizzies" -
At the Menu Screen, enter Left, A, Down, Down, A, Right. Neither character can become dizzy.

- Disable Throws -
At the Menu Screen, enter B, A, Down, Left, Up, C. Neither character can throw.

- Fight as a Boss -
Enter the following code at the Main Menu screen....
C - Right - A - B - A - B - B - Left
Then go into the Vs. Battle and you should have bosses available.

- Nine Continues -
At the Menu Screen, enter A, Left, Left, Down, A, A, Left, Left, Down, A. You will have nine continues at the start of the game.

- Two More Reserve Points -
Enter the following code at the Main Menu screen....
Up - C - B - A - Down - A - B - C - Left - C - B - A - Right - A - B - C
Then when you play the game you should have two more reserve points.

Reviewer: Adrian

http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/genesis/review/R76045.html
