Only one man knows the real story behind Marion's disappearance... and he's dead!

Now the Double Dragons must rely on a mysterious fortune teller to locate Marion and her ransom--the Sacred Stones of Power!With 1 & 2 player simultaneous action, you'll fend off vicious street thugs, evil Ninja warriors, deadly gladiators, Manchurian barbarians and more!

Defeat your most dreaded enemies and out of pure respect they'll join your side--adding their Iron Claws and Shangai Stars to your all-new martial arts maneuvers--like the awesome Mid-Air Somer-Assault.

--from the back cover of Double Dragon 3: The Sacred Stones

Double Dragon 3: The Arcade Game was a decent port from the arcade to Genesis. There was a loss in the quality of graphics and sound, but that is to be expected from a port from arcade to console. At the beginning of almost every level, you will find a shop where you can buy powerups, tricks, and extra lives. Buy them all. They will definitely help you on your way. This addition to the Double Dragon series featured some pretty cool improvements. One was a new character. He's a really big guy by the name of Roney. He's pretty tough. I especially like his jump back spin kick. Another improvement was the ability to jump on an enemy while they are down. If you knock someone down, you can push the jump button right afterwards and jump on them. You have to be careful though, some enemies will hit you while you are in the air. Just be sure the foe is all alone before trying it. Double Dragon 3: The Arcade Game is a very fun game and it's a great addition to the Double Dragon family. 

Directions:

Find and return all three Rosetta Stones to Egypt. 

Controls:

A Button: Punch
B Button: Jump
C Button: Kick
Start: Start/Pause

Hints:

Defeating Yagyu Ranzou
When Yagyu splits into three images of himself, attack him as quickly as possible. 

- New Menu -
Enter the following code when the brick wall scrolls in the biginning of the game: A + B + C
A new menu should appear giving you many new options

Reviewer: Adrian

http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/genesis/home/586146.html
