Dynamite Duke ( aka The Double Dynamites ), a port of the arcade game, is a mindless shooter where you just blow up anything in sight. It's a fun game a first couple of times through, but it's an average game that you won't be coming back to a whole lot.

As Duke you must stop ''The Colonel'' and his army of mutant soldiers from taking over the world. So you alone raid his island to stop his terror. Wow!! What a plot! ( sarcasm )

Dynamite Duke is an on-rails shooter, the only direction you'll be going is right the whole game. Your character can be seen on screen with his back facing you, so even if the screen is slowly moving right, you can still move Duke left and right on screen to avoid the onslaught of soldiers and their gunfire that appear. And when I mean an onslaught, I mean every freakin soldier, gun turret, helicopter, tank....anything, will pop out of nowhere to get a shot at you. But you gotta be careful with your ammo since you only have a limited supply. But then you can just shoot at nearly any object to reveal power-ups, from ammo, armor wear, special guns and auto aiming. If you still can't handle the army with those items, then you can use your special attack which come in the form of ''D'' packs ( I'm assuming the D is for Dynamite, hence the title ). And once you charge one of these babies up by holding down the B button, once you let go, every enemy on screen will get hit by it's explosion.

At the end of every level you go in hand to hand combat with the bosses, most of which appear several times in the game under different colors.

The controls in the game are good with fast responses, you can easily move and duck around quickly avoiding gunfire while shooting at the same time. You can do alot at the same time, like dodging, shooting and using those ''D'' packs all at once.

Hints:

- Super Options -
Highlight Options and then enter the following code. A new menu should appear that gives you super options.
C - C - C - C - C - C - C - C - C - C - Start

Reviewer: PickHut
http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/genesis/review/R37468.html
