Enter the world of New York, 1928  a city that stands unknowingly gripped by the machinations of a sinister religious society. Their leader, aided in his efforts by the underworld of organized crime, ultimately seeks to recall the dark god Hastur from his prison in the outer planes. And once Hastur is free, humanity will soon realize the sheer destructive force of Tornado  the deadly influence of the wind, "El Viento."

Such a person will also miss out on the beautiful moment in which our protagonist makes her dramatic appearance, the moment one suddenly realizes that the ill treatment of this cart is in fact SACRILEGE!

Clad all in white, the lovely Annet blazes onto the screen! A Peruvian teenage girl born of the same bloodline as Hastur and drawn in the vein of Japanese anime, our green-haired heroine dashes about the faded streets of New York trouncing hoods with her soaring steel boomerangs and powerful magic spells. Take a moment to soak in the game's smooth little touches; Annet's trailing hair ribbons blow gently at her waist in the passing breeze as she stands idle, only to flutter madly above her head every time she leaps high into the air with arms raised to the sky. As one races though the streets decking gun-toting gangsters left and right, the arresting animation of our heroine's vivid turns and the graceful delivery of her boomerang blows may land you in a bit of trouble; remember to keep your eyes fixed on the many enemies that you're supposed to be paying attention to. That's right  we can't ignore the aforementioned trenchcoated goons, the motorcycling baddies, and the mobster cars that screech to a halt from within the background looking to fire upon us with blazing Thompson machine guns until a few of Annet's fireballs engulf them in massive explosions of vividly colored and pyrotechnic pixels.

Hints:

- Color Test -
As the game starts up, when the wolf team logo screen comes up hold A, B, C and press Up + Start to access the color test option.

- Max Out Your Magic -
Enter the following code at the Pause screen....
Up - Left - Right - Down - C
This should make your magic ability 1 better.
Note: This can be entered infinite times to max it out.

- Skip Current Level -
Enter the following code at the Pause screen....
Up - Left - Right - Down - B
Then when you un-pause the game you should go to the next level

- Slow motion gameplay -
Pause game play and then press Up,Left,Right,Down,A.

http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/genesis/review/R56041.html
