Fastest 1 is a Sega Mega Drive Formula One video game that is exclusive to Japan. The game was released in 1991 and features team and driver names that are similar to the real life namesakes. The language of the game is completely in the English language, even though the game was released only in Japan. Satoru Nakajima makes an appearance here as S. Inakajima. In fact, most of the Formula One starts of the 1990 Formula One season are present with their names almost identical to their proper names. This could be due to either licensing issues or through faulty Japanese-English translation.

Gameplay:

Players can participate in as many seasons that he or she wants in the championship mode. However, the player must start his or her first season with a "D" level (least desirable) team. Only by winning races does the play demonstrate enough maturity and skill to go on the more desirable teams of the "C," "B," and "A" levels. Players can modify the steering, gear box, tires, wings, and color of their chosen racing vehicle.

Unlike racing games during its era, Fastest 1 emphasizes simulated Formula One action over arcade-style gameplay. The cornering is harsher that most games released at this time and the player must actually shift from neutral (even in cars with automatic transmission) in order for the vehicle to actually start moving. All modes of the game can only accommodate a single player (except for battle mode which can have up to two players play against up to two computer opponents). In order to actually race, the player must attend free practice followed by qualifying in the eight (8) positions (although the player is given two chances to do so). If the player fails to qualify for the race, he or she gets to watch from the perspective of a randomly chosen driver.

Zero-player play is also possible with up to four computer opponents in the battle mode of the game. There is a battery save for all progress that is made during the game. Generic advertising signs appear that hinder progress for the racer if he or she manages to hit one. If the player bumps into a billboard on track, he or she proceed to negotiate his or her way out of the advertising banner and back onto the track in a realistic manner.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fastest_1
