Next generation soccer is here! Features include: Silicon Graphics modeled players utilizing MotionDesign animation technology. New moves including 1-2 passing, fast dribble, volleys, dummies, fakes, and nutmegs! Over 3,500 real players with accurate strengths and weaknesses. Transfer real and custom players to create your dream team. 12 international leagues including English, Scottish, Italian, German and French.

Gameplay:

"Aiming to be the first football simulation that is realistic in the true sense of the word, FIFA Soccer 96 was extremely popular at the time of release. It was hailed as the first really successful FIFA release, and opened the way for yearly revisions of the concept.

There were a number of factors that made FIFA96 stand out from the crowd of other football sims. Firstly, the game's commentary was revolutionary at the time -- the renowned British commentator John Motson comments all the incidents and happenings on the pitch in real-time. The ambient commentary is varied, and systems with more than the minimum memory level get extra commentary phrases.

The Virtual Stadium technology has numerous pre-defined camera angles. The game even has a SVGA mode for better-than-minimum system

FIFA96 boasts eleven leagues from all around the world, ranging from the unknown players of the Malaysian league to the celebrated stars of the English and Italian leagues. 59 International teams are also featured, and it's possible to match the teams you want to against each other through friendlies, or you can also choose to play domestic tournaments or International ones such as the World Cup. If you're not satisfied with the composition of the various teams, you can create your own dream team through the custom team creator.

Hints:

- EA Dream Team -
Press A(2), B(2), C(2), B, C(2), A(2) at the options screen.

- Secret Menu -
In the Match Select, Choose Practice. Now Beat the computer in all the scenarios (playing as both offence or defence). Do this in the 1 player competition mode (all defenders are on the field). Now in friendly mode, Pressing B will bring up a secret menu.

- Super Power -
Press B, A, B(2), C, B, A, C, B(4) at the options screen.

http://www.mobygames.com/game/genesis/fifa-soccer-96
http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/genesis/code/586183.html
