EA Sports has teamed up with the governing body of international soccer to bring you the most realistic soccer game ever created on the Sega Genesis. 16 megs packed with real soccer action - brought to you EA sports style! Incredible goalie saves - lunge or dive after hard to reach shots in the corners! Unique "play-finder" window lets you scope the field on corner kicks and free kicks. Find the open man and hammer the ball into the goal! Drop your opponent onto the turf with a slide tackle. Be careful, slide tackles from behind can result in yellow cards!

Gameplay:

The game that started the best-selling series licensed by football's world governing body, this first installment in the long running series used a dimetric (colloquially known as "isometric") viewpoint, previously unusual in football games but quickly imitated by several titles. The televisual presentation, one of the unique points of the early EA Sports titles, with hosts introducing the matches, was another thing making the game stand out from a market dominated by Sensible Soccer and Kick Off games.

Based on international teams (with fictional player names), their abilities in each skill area rated out of 10 to give the player an overall impression of how good they are. The options available follow the standard set: fouls and offsides can be toggled on and off, the match length can be set, and if the timer operates continuously, or only while the ball is in play. Gameplay privileges quick runs, short passes and blistering shots outside the penalty box, and set pieces are controlled by moving a box into the target area for the ball, and then passed, lobbed or kicked directly. On the tactical side, formations can be selected, with 5 different strategies also available (although not all of these combinations make sense) as can the team Coverage - the areas which defenders, midfielders and strikers cover.

Hints:

- Get to play as the EA All Star Team -
Select Restore mode from the play mode menu, highlight ''From Password'' and press the Start to get to teh password screen.
CGKXWB4YUnlock the EA team and start out with a 1-0 record
CGKXWH6QUnlock the EA team and start out with a 2-0 record
CYDCWRPWQUnlock the EA team and start out with a 3-0 record
CYDCWZ60WUnlock the EA team and start out with a 4-0 record
CYDCW361BQUnlock the EA team and start out with a 5-0 record
J+RCW5H1G*Unlock the EA team and start out with a 6-0 record

http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/genesis/home/586182.html
http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/genesis/code/586182.html
http://www.mobygames.com/game/genesis/fifa-international-soccer
