The game is set in the year 2142 and details the journey of Conrad B. Hart, an agent for the Galaxia Bureau of Investigation, and his attempts to recover his lost memory to save the world. During one of his investigations, Conrad discovers a plot to destroy the Earth involving aliens that disguise themselves as governmental officials. Conrad saves a copy of his memory in a holocube as a precaution against it being erased. As he feared, the aliens do eventually kidnap Conrad and erase his memory. He escapes, but is left stranded in a jungle on Titan. Conrad sees himself in the holocube, ordering him to travel to the New Washington, which is also on Titan, in order to regain his memory from his friend Ian. He eventually meets a stranger that was wounded by the aliens. Conrad finds his teleporter and gives it to him. The man teleports away but leaves behind an ID card, which Conrad later uses. Soon, he buys an anti-G belt in order to jump down a hole that leads to New Washington.

There, he finds Ian being attacked by a pair of corrupt cops. Conrad kills them, and Ian uses a regenerator in order to give Conrad back his memory. Conrad asks Ian what to do in order to return to Earth. Ian says that the ticket price is huge, and the only way would be to be a contestant on the game show Death Tower. Conrad asks if Ian can give him false papers, but Ian tells him that he needs to ask for Jack in the bar. When he gets there, Jack tells him that the cost is 1500 credits. Conrad gets enough credits by getting a work permit and then completing jobs. Jack then gives him the papers, and Conrad enters Death Tower.

Conrad wins the contest. When he returns to Earth, a gang of corrupt cops discover him and try to kill him. As he fends them off and proceeds, he ends up in Paradise Club, which is really the alien's hideout on Earth.

Conrad sees three aliens, all but one in disguise, talking about how they have given the humans the ability to produce their needed power, and how millions of their warriors were soon going to be teleported to Earth to destroy mankind. The vent that Conrad is standing on falls, and the undisguised alien has him thrown in the dungeons and his gun taken from him. Soon, a Death Tower terminator opens Conrad's cell and tries to kill him, but he runs off and finds his gun, which he uses to kill the terminator.

Eventually, Conrad finds a teleporter that leads him to the very distant planet Morphs, which is the home of the aliens. There, Conrad finds a human named Phillip Harvard Clark a prisoner. As Conrad attempts to free him, a Morph shoots Phillip because his door is opened, only to then be killed by Conrad. Just before Phillip dies, he gives Conrad his atomic charge. He eventually finds his diary, which gives him logic information.

Soon, Conrad enters the Master Brain area. Once at a certain spot, Conrad hears Phillip's voice tell him to put the atomic charge at the spot and then flee. Conrad does so as Morphs starts shaking and crumbling. He eventually escapes via a spacecraft and gets out of Morphs's atmosphere just as it explodes. The game then cuts to Conrad making a message in the spacecraft's journal.

Conrad is shown entering suspended animation as the last sentence of the message is shown.

Gameplay:

"Flashback" is a platform action adventure. You navigate Conrad over the platforms, performing various moves. You can simply jump or do a longer run-and-jump, run, climb, hang off ledges, and pick up objects lying on the ground. To defend yourself, you shoot enemies with your gun and also use various objects (such as stones) to harm or to distract them.

Hints:

- Better Weapon -
Enter the following at the password screen:
WEAPON - Better gun

- Easy Passwords -
Enter the following code at the Pasword screen....
Level 1: PIXEL
Level 2: BETSY
Level 3: PANCHO
Level 4: STUDIO
Level 5: TOHO
Level 6: AKANE
Level 7: INCBIN 
Then you should go to your desired level

- Expert Level Ending Code Password -
At the password screen put in CYGNUS.

- Expert Passwords -
Enter the following code at the Pasword screen....
Level 1: CLIO
Level 2: ACRTC
Level 3: BLOB
Level 4: STUN
Level 5: MIMOLO
Level 6: HECTOR
Level 7: KALIMA
Then you should go to your desired level

- Normal Passwords -
Enter the following code at the Pasword screen....
Level 1: FALCON
Level 2: DATA
Level 3: MILORD
Level 4: QUICKY
Level 5: BIJOU
Level 6: BUBBLE
Level 7: CLIP
Then you should go to your diesired level

- View Game Ending -
Enter SANFRA as your code to view the ending of the game.

- Walk through Walls -
When at any wall, turn away from it, hold A and the D-pad away from the wall, and then when Conrad runs, release A and press the D-pad towards the wall.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flashback:_The_Quest_for_Identity
http://www.mobygames.com/game/genesis/flashback-the-quest-for-identity
http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/genesis/code/586187.html
