Life is never easy, especially in the stone age. Strange things are happening in Bedrock and it's up to you to set things right. At least Mr. Slate, won't be on back as you battle beasts to get to the bottom of things. Don't be a dodo, Wilma is waiting and there'll be no Brontoburgers for you if you fail.

--From the Genesis Flintstones instruction manual.

Directions:

The manual doesn't prepare us for the dangers that Fred might encounter. Maybe the designers didn't want to frighten us off. "Hey, don't play that game, even Quentin Tarantino thought it was too violent to be made into a movie".

So we must follow Fred to his eventual encounter with Death, with nothing to prepare us for the horrible and unjust outcome. Or maybe it is just a fun-filled way to amuse yourself. Who knows? The manual was written on a Mobius Strip.

Seriously folks, Wilma tells Doofus what to do. So when she starts talking, you and Fred better listen. Otherwise Fred will get slapped upside the head and you won't have a clue as to what you are trying to accomplish. If you can't understand that, then ask your wife. She too might not understand, but it won't stop her from telling you what it means.

And don't be fooled by the cute little creatures. They are deadly. When they come near you beat the daylights out of them until they disappear. If somebody from the SPCA argues with you, throw one of the fuzzy-wuzzys in their face. It'll shut them up.

Jumping On Objects:

- Move to the object's edge and while pressing the D-Control UP, press "A" or "C" - it isn't as easy as it sounds

Goodies:

Apple - 200 points and a heart

Lucky Star - 200 points - get 50 and you get something special

Star - 1000 points - ten will get you another life

A Fred - 100 points and an extra life

A Wilma - invincibility for a short time

Heart - 100 points and new strength - can only collect six

Balloon - 100 points and something special

Pterodactyl Eggs - crack open for a ride

Power Up - strengthens you 

Gameplay:

This is a platform game based on the famous Flintstones series. The game features many original Flintstones characters, such as Fred, Wilma, Barney, and others. Instead of the usual "save the princess" or "liberate the world" kinds of a plot, "The Flintstones" is mainly based on small quests: Fred has to retrieve a lost item, etc. The large levels are divided into smaller stages. In the end of each level there is a boss battle. The gameplay involves mostly jumping and hitting the enemies on the heads with a club. The health is measured by hearts. During the game Fred will find many useful items, including some that will increase his health level.

Controls:

A Button: Jump
B Button: Attack
C Button: Jump
UP + A: Jump on Object
UP + C: Jump on Object
Down: Duck Head
Start Button: Start / Pause

Hints:

- Level Select -
Enter the following code at the title screen.....
Hold A + B + C + Left - then Press Start
If done correctly you should have access to any level you want .

http://www.consoleclassix.com/genesis/flintstones.html
http://www.mobygames.com/game/genesis/flintstones
http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/genesis/code/586190.html
