THE TIME: The 29th Century

THE PLACE: A planet somewhere in the swirling gases of space.

Ruins, destruction, wastelands. That's all there is to see, all over the planet. Signs of life? Well, there's Reptilian Thugs roaming what's left of the streets, and repulsive Zipper Worms splashing around in the harbor. But that's not what you're looking for.

Aha! You finally spot the Store, where you load up with weapons. You buy another Satellite Booster, hoist a Napalm Bomb over your shoulder, and grab a Treatment to keep up your strength. You're a Nameless One. You're powerful and quick and you never give up. You've only got one idea: FREE THE PLANET!

You know the history of this desolate world. In ancient times the Human Beings ruled in peace and cooperation. Sure, they had their problems - cold wars, organized crime, nuclear bombs. But their little troubles seemed like nothing when the real War happened.

Without warning space warships broke through the sky, loaded with fiendish aliens. Bombs, missiles, napalm, and fire rained down. The Human Beings weren't ready, and put up only a puny defense before surrendering!

In a few hours it was all over. The vicious predators seized the planet and made it their den. They destroyed the cities and all communication lines. Worst of all, they enslaved all Human Beings into a life of misery and humiliation.

The planet became the Dust World. The Human Beings were reduced to pitiful shreds of their former glory, living in dread of the hostile Aliens who infested their planet. But in a hidden place, a group of brave Human Beings raised two male children in secret. They brought up the young men as Warriors, training them for battle and the specialized use of lethal weapons.

The gamble paid off! The two Warriors emerged as armed machines of might, strength, and super power - the Nameless Ones.

As a Nameless One you've got to move quick, shoot fast, and show no mercy. You face vicious Aliens, repulsive monsters, and fire-belching machines. Your only rest is at the Store, where you load up with ammo and revive your strength.

War is bad, but somebody's got to do it. You swear to destroy the hateful invaders, free the Dust Planet, and restore its ancient name: Earth!

--From the Genesis Forgotten Worlds instruction manual.

Gameplay:

Forgotten Worlds is a one or two player game where the player takes control of armed flying marine fighting alien adversaries. The arcade version's uses an eight-directional joystick to fly the character around the screen and rotatable 360 degrees dial switch that adjust the character's aim and fire at any direction.

The player can accumulate a form of currency named "zennies" by defeating small fry enemies. These zennies can be used in shops located thorough the game to purchase new power-ups that increases the player's offensive and defensive strengths.

The game is composed of five stages and features eight boss characters.

Directions:

You are trying to recover the Earth and free the remaining inhabitants from slavery. You don't use diplomacy, you use war! No need to tell you to shoot, because after about two seconds in the battle, you will figure that out for yourself.

You must defeat the aliens on The Dust Planet, The Pyramid of Terror, The Cosmic World and finally The Tower of Dread doing combat with the Bosses: Paramecium, The Dust Dragon, The Iron Warlord, The Sphinx, Ymesketit, the Iceman (he does cometh) and the War Tyrant.

Don't expect the Bosses to get any easier as you progress. The manual doesn't specify their strengths, but when was the last time things got easier as you went forward?

Zenny is the currency in this part of the Universe and you get them for blasting aliens and their machines. Pick them up by flying over them. The larger the Zenny coin, the more Zennys you get. Seems fair: I got a hernia picking up a big one and it almost paid for the repair surgery.

Bonus Score- There are Bonus Points available when you complete a battle and the faster you complete it, the more bonus points you earn. At the end of the battle, they are converted into Zennys.

You can increase your strength by flying over a POW, a Drum, a Windmill and other special objects. I haven't a clue as to what a POW is and the manual doesn't say. This might be some technical term that gamers know. Not me.

You can't find Mirabella's Store, the equivalent of an intergalactic Super K-Mart; she will find you when she is needed. Well, where was she when I was lying face down in the dirt, my lifeless body growing colder by the minute? Spend your Zennys here since they aren't accepted at the 7-11 down the street.

And be sure to buy a dress if you can, because at the end of the War you will get an extra 1,000,000 points! It is only available in the Temple of Dread Store and only in a petite size 4, so you full figured guys might need to take it to a tailor. Be sure to not get it soiled as you fight monsters, since your mom wants you to wear it to the prom. Yeah, folks, this is real.

Points-
     Alien Fiends     200
     Paramecium       15000
     Dust Dragon      30000
     Iron Warlord     50000
     Sphinx           60000
     Ymesketit        70000
     Iceman           80000
     War Tyrant       100000

Merchandise found in Mirabella's Store
Merchandise       Zennys Action
-All Direction Shooter 3,000 Fires in 8 directions at once
-Armor             3,000 Take up to 3 enemy shots without losing Strength
-Aura Stone       30,000 Doubles your Strength
-Balcan Cannon       50,000 Most powerful weapon
-Flying Stone       100       Boosts speed: Copper normal, Silver high, Gold ultra-high
-Homing Laser       99,900 Tracking laser
-Information       100       Tips on winning the next battle
-Laser             20,000 Light weapon
-Life Pack             600+       Boosts Strength to Maximum level
-Missile             5,000 Auto-tracking explosive
-Napalm Bomb       5,000 Scorches every-thing it touches
Potion of Resurrection 20,000+ Power drink revives you if you die
-Special Armor       5,000 Take up to 5 enemy shots without losing Strength
-Super Beam       80,000 Survive up to 5 enemy hits without being injured.
-Super Booster       50,000 Boosts your shots to maximum damaging power
-Treatment             300+       Restores your Strength
-Wide Shots       50,000 Weapon fires large-caliber ammo 

Special Movement using the Satellite:

A-Button:
     Circles the Warrior to the left and circles the Satellite to the left around the warrior

C-Button:
     Circles the Warrior to the right and circles the Satellite to the right around the warrior

A-Button + B-Button
     Circles Warrior and Satellite to the left
C-Button + B-Button
     Circles Warrior and Satellite to the right 

Controls:  

A Button: Circles Left
B Button: Fires Weapons
C Button: Circles Right
A + B: Circles Left Firing
B + C: Circles Right Firing
Start Button: Start/Select/Pause

Hints:

- Unlimited Continues -
Play in a two player game and press the start button to come back to life.

http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/genesis/home/586191.html
http://www.consoleclassix.com/genesis/forgotten_worlds.html
http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/genesis/code/586191.html
