Yuria is a strange land, with evil oppressors. Death Adder's soldiers have invaded every village. And Death Adder himself has massacred thousands.

Finally, he's kidnapped the King and his Daughter, the Princess, and seized the Golden Axe. Only the strongest and the craftiest warriors now have any chance of defeating him

Three warriors appear to challenge Death Adder. Ax-Battler, the terrible Barbarian, arrives from the far plains. His mighty strength and courage is a match for any enemy.

Tyris-Flare, the Amazon, appears from the deep jungles to overcome the oppressors. With sword-skill and Lightning Magic she vows to save the Kingdom.

Gilius-Thunderhead, the Dwarf, swings a deadly axe. His tricks and speed in battle can outwit even the most brutal giant.

These three, like many others, have lost cherished loved ones in the war against the reptile fiend, Death Adder. Now they swear to defeat him--even at the cost of their lives.

The challenge is overwhelming: defeat all of Death Adder's soldiers and beasts, travel the treacherous route to his castle, demolish Death Adder Jr., and then face their most powerful enemy, Death Adder himself.

The reward: saving the lives of the King and Princess and returning peace to the Kingdom.

That's the plan. But there could be a suprise ending!

--From the Genesis Golden Axe instruction manual.

Directions:

Fight many foes, and make your way to Death Adder, the evilest foe of all. He is a a really bad guy who likes to terrorize the countryside and kidnap its rulers. On the way to fighting Death Adder there are, of course, about a million bad guys that need killin'.

There is a wonderful sense of humor in the game, though. In one scene between levels, your character is chillin' by the fire, only to be disturbed by thieving rabbits! The rabbits have come to steal vials you have collected, but every time you hit one they will drop a vial or some food. You need these vials to whip up magic attacks that would probably be better used against bosses.

You will also come up against enemies riding dragons and other weird creatures. On the other hand, if you knock them off their mount you can ride it! Another cool feature is that you can pick people up and throw them, in some places they can be tossed off cliffs.

Another important feature was multiplayer, in which you and a friend can fight bad guys together. Alas, one major complaint, no save feature. It was really hard to get through the game with the select few "continues" that were given. 

Gameplay:

- Story Mode -
Progress is made through the game by fighting through Death Adder's henchmen, including men armed with clubs and maces, skeleton warriors, and knights. Aiding the characters in their quest is their ability to cast spells that hurt all enemies on the screen. The force of this magic depends on the number of "bars" of magic power currently available. The bars are filled by collecting blue 'magic potions' found throughout the game. The male warrior Ax, limited to 4 bars, is able to cast Earth spells. The dwarf Gilius, limited to 3 bars, casts lightning spells and the female warrior Tyris can cast devastating fire magic, but her most powerful spell costs 6 bars. To balance the differences in magic, each class has differences in the range of their main weapon. The Dwarf which has the least magic capacity has the longest range attacks. Conversely, the female warrior which has most magic, gets the shortest range attack. The male fighter is a balance between the two.

Various steeds are found in the game, which are known as bizarrians. These can be ridden when the enemy rider is knocked off, or if one is found dormant. The least powerful steed is known as a 'Chicken-Leg', which can be used to knock down enemies with a swipe of its tail. The more powerful dragon, which can either shoot fireballs or breathe fire, is found later in the game.
The Duel mode

- The Duel mode -
The Duel is a gameplay mode which was a feature of most ports, but not of the original arcade game. It can be played either single or two-player.

In the single-player mode, the player battles enemies in stages. A handful of enemies attack, and when they are defeated the player moves on to the next group of enemies. Sometimes even bosses appeared to challenge the player. The player had to make do with the health they started with for the duration of the game, and magic could not be used at all. At some stages enemies rode on bizarrians, which could be stolen and used to fight with.

If played in two-player mode, The Duel became a one-on-one battle against the other player with no enemies or stages. Like the single-player duel mode, health could not be regained, nor magic used.

Controls:

A Button: Magic
B Button: Attack
C Button: Jump
Start Button: Start/Pause

Hints:

- 9 continues -
Hold Down Left + A + C. Release and press start. 

- Level select -
Select arcade mode. Hold Down/Left + B and press Start at the character selection screen. A number that corresponds to the starting level will appear in the upper left corner of the screen. Use the D-pad to change it to the level you want.

http://www.mobygames.com/game/genesis/golden-axe
http://www.consoleclassix.com/genesis/golden_axe.html
http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/genesis/code/563326.html
