The Super Strategic Defense Initiative of the 1990's banned inter-continental ballistic missiles and nuclear warheads. Now the year is 2016. Weapons today are limited to super strategic mobile weapons.

Enter Granada. Hypertek-Cannon Tank. (HCT).

Firepower as we know it today is all but abandoned with Granada. Granada uses shields and radar to create its defense mechanism. Offensive firepower is provided by the most awesome array of weaponry ever assembled on a battlefield. These include multi-directional interceptors, long-range homing missiles, and a device designed to totally obliterate all opposing forces.

You will command Granada through the peaceful streets of Tobora. Battle the giant flying battleship Astarsha, and Valsic, another HCT.

If you enjoy fast paced action-packed thrills, you'll love the feel and sound of Granada.

--From the Genesis Granada instruction manual.

Directions:

Drive around as Granada and blow the bolts out of whatever gets in your way. 

Gameplay:

Granada is a free-roaming scrolling shooter. You control the titular maneuver cepter Granada as you make your way through each stage, destroying the enemy's weapons. You have a map that tells you where your targets are on the stage, and once all the targets have been destroyed a large boss enemy appears which must also be destroyed. You are equipped with a standard cannon, as well as a more powerful blaster that will actually push your machine backwards with the recoil. There are also assist pickups which will follow you and reflect any shots you fire at it toward the nearest enemies.

Of special note is the fixed cannon feature. Using this feature, you can hold the direction of fire while still moving freely. The game has nine stages and three difficulty levels.

Controls:

A Button: Shoot cannon
B Button: Lock cannon for strafing
C Button: Fire Big cannon
Start Button: Start, Pause

Hints:

- Flying tank -
Play until level 2, then drive the tank off the edge exactly as the timer runs out. Your tank will explode and the timer will reset. Your new tank will be able to fly around and attack from outside the ship until your time runs out again.

http://www.mobygames.com/game/genesis/granada
http://www.consoleclassix.com/genesis/granada.html
http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/genesis/code/586217.html
