When Whitebeard the wizard lost his powerful magic scrolls, he knew who to turn to for help - Waldo! Whitebeard asks his good friend to search the Realms of Enchantment to find his missing parchments. Well, you know Waldo's famous love of challenges... so he takes his walking stick, his trusty dog Woof and off he goes! Now it's your turn to help Waldo in his thrilling search across lands filled with hungry ogres, flaming dragons, massive castles, fire druids, wild beasts and plenty more! Find alarm clocks that give you a little extra time, Bonus Points that add to your score, and even Waldo's canine buddy who will take you on a magic carpet ride! All the fun and crazy cartoons are here for Waldo lovers everywhere!

Gameplay:

Based on the popular Where's Waldo series of books, your goal is to find Waldo, who is hidden in various pictures. You must find him before time on the clock runs out. You control a magnifying glass and you click on various items for different effects. Finding a clock adds more time to your search, clicking on a 150 icon adds 150 points to your score.

Each picture consist of 6 adjacent screens containing that pictures theme. The themes are The Carpet Flyers, The Underground Hunters, The Battling Monks, The Unfriendly Giants and The Land of Waldos. You are given the option of playing on Normal difficulty, Expert difficulty or playing the Land of Waldos stage. The only difference between the difficulties is that on expert there are no clock items to give you extra time.

In all of the stages you must find both Waldo and a scroll to complete the stage and Waldo must be found before the scroll in order to complete the stage. Also, Waldo's dog Woof is also in each of these stages (except for the Land of Waldos) and by finding him you get to play a small bonus stage where you collect points as you control the dog on a flying carpet.

Hints:

- Unlimited time -
While playing press B on pad 2 and the timer will stop.

http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/genesis/code/586219.html
http://www.mobygames.com/game/genesis/great-waldo-search
