Save the neighborhood from Harry and Marv! Kevin's been left home alone, and the two sneaky crooks are prowling his street. Who's in danger now? Kevin - or the bullying housebreakers? Race from house to house on Kevin's sled, keeping your eyes peeled for the villains. Dodge stumps and slick ice 'cuz time's running out. Arm yourself with a BB gun and all the home-made weapons you can find and assemble. Keep the robbers running before they can loot the goods! 5 different houses to save. Set and launch a variety of attacks and ambushes to snare the thieves. Assemble household items to make and use hilarious weapons like a flashbulb shotgun, a snowball bazooka and a glue-bomb launcher. Comic animation and slap-stick action relive all the fast, zany humor of the hit movie.

Gameplay:

The purpose of the game is to escape the Wet Bandits while bringing all the McCallister's fortunes from the house down to the safe room in the basement. Once all items have been sent down the chute to the basement Kevin must make it past rats, bats, and ghosts he encounters in the basement then fight the spider king so he can make it to the safe room to lock away all his families riches. In the Home Alone game for the PC, the player must set up traps to hurt the Wet Bandits. In the Home Alone title for the NES, the player must avoid being caught by the Wet Bandits in 20 minutes.

20th Century Fox played a vital role in converting the movie into video game form. Still pictures of movie scenes are used in the portions of the game that are meant to tell the story about how the Wet Bandits plan to invade the house of a young boy whose family is on vacation in Europe (Florida in the Home Alone 2 versions).

Hints:

- Freeze a Bandit -
In the Old House, go upstairs and stand in the bathtub. Wait until Marv or Harry comes and let them jump onto the tub, then quickly shoot them. Exit the tub and whoever you hit will start walking into the wall and will not move unless you touch them or leave the house. You can also get both in there if timed correctly.

- Old House Attic -
At the Old House, go to the top floor and into the bedroom, all the way on the right. Jump onto the bed, and place a tire. Jump on the tire to bounce Kevin onto the ledge. Place another tire and jump onto it to bounce Kevin into the attic. Up here are multiple items and the Wet Bandits cannot get up here. Watch out because like on the regular floors, Kevin can make holes in the roof and fall through.

http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/genesis/home/586236.html
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Home_Alone_(video_game)
