"THE Most Fun Dodgeball Game You Will Ever Play"

I'm at one of my friend's houses, and he shows me a dodgeball game on his emulator. After losing the first five matches, I started winning and I got hooked. I searched on Ebay for a copy, I modded my Genesis's cartridge slot, and when it arrived, I had a hell of a time. Dodge Danpei-Kuy Kid (known as Hono no tokyuji Dodge Danpei in Japanese) stands for Dodge Ball: Kid on Fire (loosely translated). Apart from being a Japanese only game, it was also a short-lived anime series in Japan. So how does a game this popular not make it to the US? No idea. Game play will tell you how good it is though.

Game Play: 10/10

This is probably the easiest pick up and play game I've ever played. The object of the game (of course) is to play dodge ball, and win. Apart from throwing and dodging, you can also catch, jump, duck, and perform special throws (each player has their own special throw). It is also unique, in that you can utilise your teammates who are out, or who are waiting to be subbed in (the stand along the outer edge of the opponents area). There are 15 teams to choose from, and they range from Unique teams, to teams from Japan, to teams from different countries. There are also 5 modes so the insanity never stops. Story is next.

Story: 10/10

I haven't had it translated for me yet (the in-game story), however the story is apparently about a kid who is the best Dodge Ball player in the world. And on his way to the top, he must (along with his team fo friends) beat many different teams in order to establish himself as the best. Good story, same with the graphics.

Graphics: 10/10

These are Genesis graphics? Way ahead of their time (1992). Each team has unique looking players and unique looking jerseys/playing fields/backgrounds etc. The backgrounds are great and they represent the teams very well (Russia is snowy, Brazil is in the rain forest etc.). The opening video is especially good, probably the best Genesis opening video I've ever seen (yes better than Zero Wing). Is the sound as good?

Sound: 10/10

Another category, another 10. The sounds in this game are the second best element aside from the game play. The soundtrack is one of the best soundtracks I've ever heard from a game, and the sounds are equally enjoyable- you get great satisfaction from hearing the crunching of a ball into the face of an opponent. And again, the opening video music; pure gold. Can replay ability make it 5/5?

Replay ability 10/10

Yes it did. This game will NEVER not be played. Aside from the grueling story mode, you will be playing hours and hours against the computer. The vs mode is also fun, but the heart of the replay ability is the 8 team tournament you can hold. With 7 buddies this game becomes one of the best party games in you arsenal. Finally, the practice mode is a great place to hone you skills.

Buy or rent?

No renting because we don't live in Japan (unless you live in Japan and are reading this). As for buying, again unless you are in Japan, you won't find this game anywhere. Ebay had 2 copies, and I bought one of 'em so there should be one left. If you are in for a fun time, I suggest you snatch it up immediately.

By far one of my top 5 favourite games, and by far one of my top 3 most fun times I've had while playing a video game. The game is pure gold, and I don't know what brought me to discover this gem, but whatever did, I am obliged. Get this game, you will NOT be disappointed. "Game Set!"

Reviewer's Score: 10/10, Originally Posted: 02/26/07, Updated 09/11/09

Game Release: Honoo no Doukyuuji: Dodge Danpei (JP, 07/10/92)

Reviewer: FRIEDSTRUCK
http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/genesis/review/R111012.html
