Once upon a time the government set out to get kids to buckle their safety belts by showing talking crash dummies getting mashed and destroyed because they didn't buckle their safety belts. In the early 90's, somebody thought kids would buy action figures of those same guys.

They rode on little vehicles that, when you shoved them into a wall, would hit little buttons on the action figure's chest and send his body parts flying in all directions. Apparently the figures didn't sell so well, so they tried to glitz things up by making the dummies superheroes who fought the evil Junkman, a renegade crash dummy who wanted to end crash-testing and take over the world, as shown in a pun-filled and spazzy Saturday morning cartoon.

That's what this game is about, I think. You're a crash dummy out to stop Junkman from doing something bad. He kidnapped the guy who invented crash dummies, who invented some weapon that'll make Junkman invincible. So you get to run and jump your way through a bunch of typical platform game levels to save the day.

What can I say about this game? The hit detection sucks, that's one thing. Like with the toys, your dummy loses arms and legs when he gets hit. This doesn't impair his ability to run and jump and throw wrenches (your only means of defense), but frankly for guys who drive cars into walls at a hundred miles an hour for a living, they don't take damage very well. And those pro-tek suits they got when they started fighting Junkman which are supposed to make them stronger and more resilient don't help any either.

After some levels you crash test some kind of vehicle for bonus points. Funny, I thought you were trying to get to Junkman's hideout and save your creator. But you're still at work? What the heck?

Graphics are at least competant, as the characters look like the dummines the way I remember them from that Saturday morning ten years ago. The sound isn't really worth discussing, except for the way your guys says ''Crash!'' when he dies. It was a cute, if futile, attempt at making the game a little funnier.

The crash dummies were good for getting us to buckle up, but not so good for being sold as toys or as waging war against the forces of evil. At least not in a video game. I can't lay my finger on a single reason why; this whole game is just dumb. Maybe if you didn't get hurt so easily it'd be better, but I'm not putting any money on that.

Reviewer: The Manx
http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/genesis/review/R69824.html
