When The Young Indiana Jones Chronicles debuted on television in the early 1990s, it was not embraced by the public as many Indy fans and Lucasfilm alike had hoped. While it managed to stay afloat as a series of television films and previous episodes re-edited into feature length specials into the mid 1990s, the project eventually folded due to lack of interest from the public. While the idea behind the series was solid and pioneered many new filmmaking techniques, Lucasfilm could not make the boat float and the Young Indiana Jones projects ceased.

There was a small merchandising campaign associated with the series and within this marketing umbrella, two console games were made. Jaleco made the first in 1992 for the Nintendo Entertainment System simply titled The Young Indiana Jones Chronicles, and the game was as devoid of creativity as its title. The second game was produced in 1993, titled Instruments of Chaos: Starring Young Indiana Jones, and was developed by Sega for the Genesis/Mega Drive system. This game proves to be as forgettable as the Nintendo title, but unlike the NES product, this game has a more colorful history.

Gameplay:

The structure of the game is much like the Nintendo title. It is a platform game, with Young Indy running and jumping and using his whip to fight off the baddies while collecting items, power ups, and extra weapons. The graphics are average for the Genesis/Mega Drive with the digitized backgrounds looking very nice at the expense of the foreground animations, which tend to look inferior by comparison. The game is a real step up stylistically from the NES version, both visually and in sound structure. Unfortunately, the game is still an uninspired platform romp. The play control is rather awkward and Indy's whip acts more like a jump rope than a kangaroo hide, lashing weapon. The plot is also nothing too original. Once again, based generally on ideas from the series, Young Indy must try and outwit agents of the German Kaiser during the height of World War I. With this kind of narrative setup, the game takes Indy across the world fighting off the Kaiser's evil agents.

http://www.theraider.net/information/videogames/instruments_chaos.php
