To: James Pond... For your fish eyes only! Pond, the fiendish Dr. Maybe is back. His bombs are ticking in the North Pole toy factories. No human crime fighter has been able to defeat him. So F.I.S.H. (Finned Investigators of Shady Humans) has designed a special Robosuit for your survival on land. Pond, go to it! Remember, Dr. Maybe has a screw loose, so stay on your fins!

Gameplay:

The gameplay takes place across worlds themed around particular types of toys, such as sporting goods, candy and aircraft. The levels scroll sideways, although a small amount of vertical movement is included. On each level Pond must collect 2 penguins and reach the exit, although there are usually multiple exits and lots of secret areas to explore. After completing each pair of two worlds (each of which has three sub levels), a boss must be faced.

Hints:

- Invincibility -
At the hub level (the building), run right and stretch up onto a roof. There are five objects a hammer, an apple, earth (a globe), a cake and a tap. Collect them in the following order.

Cake, Hammer, Earth, Apple, Tap.

That spells C.H.E.A.T and James will become invincible for ten minutes. YOu can do this everytime you return to the hub level.

- Level Skip Code -
Enable the Invincibility code first. Then pause game play and press A button 4 times. The game will resume at the exit. Note: Enabling this code may result in an impossible situation that may require a reset.

- Power-Up Code -
To refill your power meter, spell out the word ''power'' by picking up these items in the following order: penguin, oil can, wine glass, Earth and racket.

- Secret Level -
Go to the far right end of level One, climb the tower on the roof, and walk to the left through the wall.

- Unlimited Lives -
At the sports level, spell out the word ''lives'' by picking up these items in this order: lips, ice cream, violin, Earth, snowman.

http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/genesis/home/586251.html
http://www.mobygames.com/game/genesis/james-pond-2-codename-robocod
http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/genesis/code/586251.html
