The sinister Dr. Maybe is back and only our slickest Special Agent, James Pond, can stop him. Special Agent Finnius Frog can help you get to those hard to reach places with his powerful jumping abilities. Explore more than 100 levels of outrageous fun! Win using an ocean of FI5H gadgets: suction boots, the fruit gun, X-ray specs, a thruster unit, spring boots and a clever fruit suit disguise. Use a special FI5H rocket pack to defeat Dr. Maybe! Fry over 40 different enemies under Dr. Maybe's control and avoid Maybe's mounted guns and missile launchers!

Gameplay:

The gameplay in Operation Starfish is similar to the SNES game Super Mario World. The map of the Moon consists of many levels connected with pathways. Based on the humorous legend that the Moon is made of cheese, all levels are named after different dairy products. A unique twist to the standard "Super Mario" -style gameplay is that Pond's magno-boots allow him to walk on the Moon's cheesy surface in any orientation, even upside down. Operation Starfish was one of the largest games to be made for the Sega Mega Drive and for some retro gaming fanatics it is considered to be of a higher calibre than Super Mario World; both in gameplay and humour.

Hints:

- Play As Finnius Frog -
Fill the entire password screen with green frogs, then start the game.

- Cheat Mode -
At the password screen, enter the following symbols: Red Cheese, Yellow Mouse, Green Cat, then Blue Dog. After that, add in any of these behind those symbols:
Red Fish for Invincibility
Red Book to have All Areas Unlocked
Red Star to start with five energy
Red Skull to start with one energy and one life
Red Teacup to have All Cheese Mines destroyed
Red Cupcake to have the gun always start with Homing Cupcakes
Red Dog to always have the X-Ray Specs
Then, leave the password screen by selecting the door icon, and start the game. 

- How to get the good ending -
Destroy all the cheese mines and stiltonium machines to get the good ending.

http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/genesis/code/586250.html
http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/genesis/home/586250.html
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/James_Pond_3:_Operation_Starfish
