John Madden's back in the 1995 version of Madden NFL.

Play exhibition, Super Bowl, playoffs or full season with any of the 1994 teams or all Madden teams.

This time around, you can select whether or not to include weather conditions, new player animations (high steppin', QB slides), a bigger field and over 100 injuries.

Also includes windowless passing, all new Madden-designed strategies and team match-up that shows how your players stack up to the other team in their position.

Reviewer: LepricahnsGold
http://www.mobygames.com/game/genesis/madden-nfl-95
NFL '95 improves the passing game of previous Sega football titles by allowing the player to see up to 65 yards down the field. The view is not fixed, however; it will dynamically change during play. Whenever a running back or receiver grabs the ball, the camera will zoom in for a close-up of the action. You can also elect to play as the receiver from the line of scrimmage, so you can run your own route and then signal for the ball. 

Both the NFL and NFLPA licenses are included, so all 28 pro teams are here as well as over 1,500 players rated in thirteen categories based on the 1993 season. Full season play is also available with multiple schedules, instant replays, injuries, trades, free agents and playoffs in your bid to become Super Bowl champion. Battery backup means you can track league leaders and save team standings through an entire season, along with the records of up to seven users.

Controls:

OFFENSE BEFORE SNAP

A Button: Switch receiver (hold to be the receiver)
B Button: Call audible
C Button: Snap ball

OFFENSE AFTER SNAP

PASSING

A Button: Switch receiver
C Button: Pass (hold for bullet pass)

RECEIVING

A Button: Catch
B Button: Speed burst
C Button: Dive

BALL CARRIER

A Button: Spin
B Button: Speed burst/hurdle/highstep when in the clear (hold)
C Button: Dive

DEFENSE BEFORE SNAP

A Button: Switch to next defender
B Button: Call audible
C Button: Talk trash

DEFENSE AFTER SNAP

A Button: Switch to closest defender
B Button: Tackle/speed burst/hurdle
C Button: Dive

KICKING

C Button: Snap/swing/punt

Reviewer: Scott Alan Marriott
http://www.allgame.com/game.php?id=7568
