Watch out, man!!!

Stimpy's latest invention, the Mutate-O-Matic, just exploded while Stimpy was trying to turn ordinary household garbage into a delicious glazed ham!

The pieces of the Mutate-O-Matic blew all over the place, Ren & Stimpy's lab was destroyed, and the whole town was warped!!!

Do you know what you have to do now??? YOU DON'T!!! Then read this:

   1. Collect all the pieces of the Mutate-O-Matic.

   2. Reassemble the machine.

   3. Turn it off.

Relax, man. It should be easy.

--From the Genesis Ren & Stimpy Show: Stimpy's Invention instruction manual.

Directions:

As with any place within a video game, there is danger everywhere. Use the boy's individual and teamwork techniques to keep them safe as they look for the missing parts. Look for Goodies as you go (as if I had to tell you). You get an extra life for every 50,000 points that you have (don't we all?) and Powdered Toast will save you if you fall through the cracks of society (or at least the sidewalk).

     Ren and Stimpy need to find the "Beaver Power" in the Neighborhood, the "Gauge" in the Zoo, the "Thingy" in the City, the "TV" in the Pound and the "Gizmo" in the Great Outdoors. Shouldn't be too hard. After all, all of the pieces must be hidden somewhere inside your computer. So if you hear some chainsaws running or smell burning circuitry, just understand that boys gotta do what boys gotta do.

     In One-Player mode, Ren and Stimpy must always work together. No wandering off while the other gets run over by a deranged lawnmower. No, if one gets hit by a John Deere, so does the other. But for those of you playing in Two-Player mode, you get twice-the-insanity. You get to use the flyswatter and the wet towel, but you also get to wander about alone endangering not only yourself but possibly your partner as well. What happens when one of you dies and not the other? Never tried that one, but I assume that your best buddy just has to wait until you get killed also.

Gameplay:

In one player the player controls either Ren or Stimpy and the computer controls the other character who will simply follow; however, the player can swap the character they control at almost any time during game play. In two player, players controls one character each, both within the same screen (no split screen). In one or two player several special moves can be performed by both characters standing close and a player pressing certain buttons simultaneously, the move differs depending on which buttons are pressed and whether the player is controlling Ren or Stimpy. The ability of swapping characters during game play in one player means the player can perform all the special moves not just those available for one character. The moves include: Stimpy throwing Ren to cover long distance such as over a hole.

Ren pulling off Stimpy's nose and throwing it to attack enemies (his nose regrows instantly). Ren slapping Stimpy across the face whilst shouting "You stupid idiot!" having no purpose other than amusement. The Powdered Toast Man has the ability to rescue the player's character(s) from bottomless pits. However, the rescue costs the player a portion of their health. If the player's health is low enough to die with one more hit, no amount of health is taken away when the Powered Toast Man rescues the player. Other hazards that are traditionally considered enemies can cause damage to the player; like water at the zoo level for example.

Controls:

A Button:      Team-Work Move
B Button:      Attack
C Button:      Jump
UP:            Move Up / Climb
DOWN:          Move Down / Crouch
A + LEFT:      Run Leftward
A + RIGHT:     Run Rightward
C + LEFT:      Jump Leftward
C + RIGHT:     Jump Rightward
Start + LEFT:  Switch Characters
Start + RIGHT: Switch Characters
Start Button:  Start / Pause / Resume

Hints:

- Level Passwords -
Enter the following code at the Password Screen....
Level 2: 8BZ0000 - 003B2WN
Level 3: 8C00003 - T33F2WF
Level 4: 831000B - C3322WB
Level 5: 652000G - YCM5UWV 

http://www.consoleclassix.com/genesis/ren_stimpy_show_stimpys_invention.html
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ren_%26_Stimpy:_Stimpy%27s_Invention
http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/genesis/code/563337.html
