For a long time, our world was in darkness. The sun shone as always, but our souls were dark and lacked the true enlightenment. Then the holy Nexus arrived, and changed everything. With his Rod of Creation, he blessed the people with the gift of the six Arts. The Red Priests - the people he chose among the others - established an order of the six Guilds. The world entered the era of prosperity. But the evil demon Void stole the Rod of Creation and drove the world to chaos again. In a cosmic battle, Nexus faced Void. None was victorious, and the Rod of Power was broken during the battle. It was divided into eleven rings, known as the Rings of Power. The young sorcerer Buc is now sent on a quest to retrieve those rings, and to unite the Rod of Power that will eventually banish Void forever!

Gameplay:

Unlike most console role-playing games of the time such as Final Fantasy and Dragon Quest, Rings of Power has a style that was very unique for its time. Certainly other games had attempted and succeeded in producing open world exploration, and the suggestion of a 3D environement, but Rings of Power took this further than many PC games of the time, and certanly any other console game had ever done. The game is very open ended, contains hundreds of Non-player characters with many different dialog choices, and dozens of quests and random events. Practically every location is available from very early in the game. The game world is exactly that, an entire world, all fully explorable by the player. It contains dozens of Cities, as well as smaller towns, villages and isolated hamlets, all fully populated, although one never sees anybody walking around these places on the world map (you need to enter buildings or 'zoom in' onto the specific area you are standing on to see any people who may be there.

This world is no small world all tightly packed together, everything is greatly spaced out. Not too much to make travelling boring, but enough for the player to get a sense of scale, to appreciate just how big the world is and just how much effort Naughty Dog Software put into creating this masterpiece.

Due to the fact that the ingame map did not have any locations marked and there was no quest journal, many players criticized the game's difficulty as the goal of the game was achieved through careful attention to detail and constant exploration.

There was a glossy paper map sold separately from the game itself that aided in game play.

Visually, this is not the best game, indeed one of the biggest complaints was how rigid everything was and how jerky the movement was. If you imagine a game where every time you press forward, you move one square, then turn off all but basic animations, then add some serous lag, you will get an idea. Yes the visuals were not great, and certainly hampered the movement of everythinig in the world and for many players, hampered enjoyment. However once you get past that, accept it or embrace it, then get into the meat of the game, you can understand why the game is as it is. This is a game world that is easily bigger in size than other, modern, open world rpg's such as Oblivion. And it is also fully 3D rendered, with 1 caviat, that you could not move the camera.

However, if you imagine an isometric 3d game, such as Baldur's gate, taken at a 45 degree angle, with a static camera, then you have an idea of what this game was like, in its entire world, including all interiors, of which there were hundreds of variations. Yes, visually the sprites were not a clear and crips as other games of the time. and yes, whilst it took the cutesy, bright coloured approach similar to games such as Shining Force, the trade off is having this entire gameworld that is entirely 3D. An incredible achievement for its time. This game is truly worth the time to play just to experience what Naughty Dog Software were bringing to the genre.

Hints:

- New Logo (Mature Audiences Only) -
To get an alternate Naughty Dog Games logo during the opening splash sequence, before you turn on you Genesis hold down A + B + C + Down-Right + Start, then turn your power on.

- Refill Any Chest -
To Refill any chest you have opened, simply look at your map. When you close the map, any chests you have opened will be closed and will have a random item inside. 

- Teleport Cheat -
View the map and press A C and Start on pad 2 together to teleport to wherever the cursor is.

http://www.mobygames.com/game/genesis/rings-of-power
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rings_of_Power_(game)
http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/genesis/code/586420.html
