RoboCop 3 is a side-scrolling platform shooter. You get missions (such as rescuing your colleagues who are being kept hostages), which are divided into several smaller levels. The levels usually consist of several platforms, and are heavily populated by enemies who shoot at you. You can gather special repair kits, which will be used to restore your health after you've completed a level. "RoboCop 3" is more of a shooter than its predecessors, having more and tougher enemies.

Gameplay:

The Amiga version comes with a choice of three languages: English, French and German. There are two game modes "Movie Adventure" that follows a story-line and "Arcade Action" where the player can choose between five different single levels. The "Movie Adventure" mode opens up with a cut-scene (the cut-scenes are made with subtitled 2D panels and movies with a mix of 2D and 3D graphics) where a newscasts details how the building of the new Delta City is creating a new class of homeless people and a wave of crime by a new gang called "Splatterpunks". A new police unit named "Rehabs" have been set up in response to this. The newscast then reports of a hostage situation in the city and the game cuts to the action where RoboCop is in pursuit of a stolen van. The player (represented by a green dot on the ingame map) is to stop the van (represented by an orange dot) by ramming it with his police car. If approached from the rear, the residents of the van will open fire lowering the health (called "Efficiency" in the game) of the player. Other obstacles include civilian cars on the road, terrain and buildings. After the van has been stopped the player's next goal is to assist officer Lewis inside an apartment building (represented by a white dot on the ingame map). The controls for driving the car is the keyboard cursor keys and the mouse. Somewhat different from most other racing games is the fact that no loss of speed occurs when turning only when moving the steering wheel.

Once the player has driven there, a first person shooter sequence follows where the player must find officer Lewis (who is being held hostage) in under two minutes. The only guide to where Lewis is a beeping noise that gets more frequent the closer the player gets to the goal. The level consists of corridors where the player must avoid shooting civilians (doing so lowers health) and shoot the opposing Splatterpunks who can attack by shooting and throwing handgrenades. Getting hit by a handgrenade lowers the health to zero immediately but the grenades can be shot out of the air as well. The controls are somewhat peculiar compared to what is standard today. Holding the right mouse button moves the player forward, left clicking fires the gun (unlimited ammo) and moving the cursor to the sides turns the perspective. There is no keyboard control and no "strafing" (sideways movement) that is common in other FPS games.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RoboCop_3_(video_game)#RoboCop_3
http://www.mobygames.com/game/genesis/robocop-3
