"Get back to work you lazy scum or I'll fire your sorry butt!" Ever had encouraging words like those shouted at you? If not, then apparently you've never been a blue-collar worker. Well, here is your chance to find out how it feels to be one of the over-worked and under-paid people who actually get the job done. And you don't even have to break a sweat. 

Gameplay:

Shove It! The Warehouse Game is a top-down puzzle game based on the original gameplay of Soko-Ban Hiroyuki Imabayashi wrote for Thinking Rabbit. The player controls Stevedore, a warehouse keeper, from a top-down view. As shown on the title screen, shoving boxes will earn him money to make his dreams come true, a lovely girlfriend and a fiery red sports car.

The game consists of 16 stages with 10 rounds each. At a certain stage, any of the 10 rounds can be selected while playing but a new stage will only be opened up when all rounds have been successfully completed. To complete a round, Stevedore needs to push all boxes on the designated spots. This will turn them into a different colour. This is no easy task as the level design will obstruct many moves and cornered boxes can no longer be moved. While playing it is possible to restart the round, undo the last step and the game keeps track of the number of steps taken.

The game supports passwords and includes an edit mode where new levels can be designed and played.

Hints:

- Final Level Password -
Enter the following code at the Password Screen....
!AYASAM!
Then you should go to the final level

- Level 25 password -
Enter password:IMPERIAL

- Levels 2 & 3 Access Codes -
Below are the codes for Levels 2 & 3. Enter these in the ''Continue'' option:
Level 2: MARINA!!
Level 3: MALIBU

- Misc. Passwords -
?VALLEY?Level 20
GLENDALELevel 21
FOOTHILLLevel 22
VANNUYSLevel 23
CRENSHAWLevel 24

- Password -
In The Password Screen Type:
SUNSETGo To Level 15

http://www.mobygames.com/game/genesis/shove-it-the-warehouse-game
http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/genesis/code/586456.html
