How about trying a new extreme sport? Bring it on! Hop on your deck and grab a hold of a bumper, any bumper, in this video game take on illegal street surfing. Designed by the folks who created the motorcycle massacre, ROAD RASH, SKITCHIN' lets you race in a dozen different locales across the United States. Realistic cityscapes serve as the backdrop for this exciting title, and a complete police force is present just to keep things interesting. Use weapons like baseball bats, crowbars, chains, pipes, and more to fend off opponents. If you earn enough dough, you can upgrade your parts and build yourself a better ride. Packed with cool tricks, unexpected tumbles, and heated competition, SKITCHIN' is a genuine original? to say the least.

--from the Genesis Skitchin' box summary 

Directions:

This game is kind of similar to Road Rash series except you're on rollerblades instead of motorcycles. The objective is to complete a series of illegal races by hanging from the back of moving cars, and gaining enough speed to finish first.

The game is full of jumps where you can perform stunts, and like the Road Rash series, full of fighting and weapons.

Once you've started racing, hold down "B" to start rollerblading. Check your rear view at the bottom of the screen to see when cars are coming behind you then when one is nearby press "A" + the control pad left or right to attempt to grab on the back of one. Be careful not to stand directly in front of the car or you will get hit. Once you're hanging from a car the best thing to do is stay on it until the car is directly behind at least one other car, then fling yourself up to cars further up by holding down "B" and moving off the car. Press "C" to attack either with your fist or with a weapon. To Pick up weapons off the ground duck down and press "A", or you can steal them from others when they're trying to whack you with them.

When approaching a jump, it's usually a good idea to use it because it will let you gain more speed and it looks cool. When you are in the air press different game-pad buttons with different control pad directions to do different stunts. The best way to learn your favorite stunts is by trial and error. Be sure to give yourself enough time to land or your your stunt will not prove to be worthwhile.

Gameplay:

It has a very similar Road Rash playability and shares the same software engine, but the players are put on violent races involving inline skating, instead of motorbikes. You can grab onto (skitch) cars, bikes and trucks to earn speed advantage over the competitors and you can pick up weapons from armed enemies and from the ground. Cash is earned winning races, doing tricks, defeating enemies and skitching cars, and you can spend it on better Inline gear (such as more resistant Elbow Pads to protect you from injuries).

You can be put out of the race wearing out your Inline skates, accumulating injuries in eventual accidents or being under arrest (in a similar Road Rash fashion, including funny animations according to the case).

Upon turning on the game, players are warned not to attempt in real life any stunt portrayed in the game (such as skate hitching onto vehicles).

Controls:  

A Button: Hang onto cars (with control pad left or right), pick up weapons (with control pad down)
B Button: Rollerblade, fling off of cars
C Button: Attack
Start Button: Pause

Hints:  

- Cheat Mode -
At the warning screen, press B, A, Down, A, Start, Start. A shout will confirm you did it right. Then you will be in cheat mode and can enter in a number of words in the password screen to boost your game such as "Money", "Thrash", "Armor", or "Speed".

- $2000 -
Enter the Master Code. Proceed to the password screen and enter the following code:
MONEY
You will start with $2000 in your account.

- 3 Nitro Bursts -
To start the game with 3 Nitros, enter the Master Code. At the Password screen, enter the following code:
SPEED
Note: Do not use this in conjunction with the weapons code. It is a case of either/or.

- Bald Player -
After doing the Master Code, go to the Password screen and enter BALD as your password.
Your player will now look like one of your many skinheaded opponents.

- Master Code -
At the Warning screen (the one telling you the implications of Skitchin' in real life) press the folling combination:
B, A, Down, A, Start, Start.
This will allow you to enter special codes at the Password screen.

- Start at Chicago -
To start at the Windy City, enter the Master Code, then go to the Password screen and enter the following code:
PIZZA

- Start at Detroit -
To start at the Motor City, enter the Master Code, then go to the Password screen and enter the following code:
CARS

- Start at New York -
To Start at New York, enter the Master Code, then go to the Password screen and enter the following code:
LIBERTY

- Start at San Diego -
To start at San Diego, enter the Master Code, then go to the Password screen and enter the following code:
BEACH

- Start at San Francisco -
To start at San Francisco, enter the Master Code, then go to the Password screen and enter the following code:
HILLS

- Start at Vancouver -
To start (or return to) Vancouver, enter the Master Code, then go to the Password screen and enter the following code:
TOTEM

- Start at Washington DC -
To start at Washington DC, Enter the Master Code, then go to the Password screen and enter the following code:
CAPITAL

- Start in Denver -
To start in Denver, enter the Master Code, then go to the Password screen and enter the following code:
BRONCOS

- Start in Los Angeles -
To start in the City of Angels, enter the Master Code, then go to the Password screen and enter the following code:
STARS

- Start in Miami -
To start in Miami, enter the Master Code, then go to the Password screen and enter the following code:
PALMS

- Start in Toronto -
To start in Toronto, enter the Master Code, then go to the Password screen and enter the following code:
JAYS

- The best 3 weapons -
Enter the Master Code. Proceed to the Password Screen and enter the following password:
THRASH
You will now start the game with the best three weapons.

- Top Equipment -
To start the game with the best (Grade 5) equipment, enter the Master Code. Proceed to the Password screen and enter the following code:

ARMOR

http://www.consoleclassix.com/genesis/skitchin.html
http://www.mobygames.com/game/genesis/skitchin
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Skitchin%27
http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/genesis/code/586462.html
