High Risk. High Pay. Deadly Play. It's eight miles of bubbling mud pits to the compound. Once inside, you're up against the deadly Chaos Engine. It has the power to create any kind of trap, any type of monster. If you can make it back, you'll never need to work again. Going solo would be lethal. Who to take? The Thug and his sawed-off? That Mercenary with the Gatling gun? Be sure to take the right cover man 'cause this could either be your last day of work or your last day of life.

Gameplay:

- Characters and weaponry -

The player(s) choose two mercenaries from the group of six to take on the task of defeating the mad Baron Fortesque and the Chaos Engine itself. In one-player mode, the computer artificial intelligence controls the second player (in a co-operative fashion), so that one never has to fight the chaos alone.

The predetermined weapons of the six "heroes" are as follows:

The Cannon (Navvie) and the Rifle (Brigand) act like like a powerful forward shot. At their full power both weapons will have a tight 4 bullet spread.

The Shotgun (Thug) and the Machine Gun (Mercenary) are similar to one another. The shot gun has a wider spread, shoots more bullets in one go but and a slower rate of fire. The Machine gun however has a continuous fire rate and closer spread.

The Pistol (Gentleman) and the Lightening Gun (Preacher) are different to the other weapons. They do not fire bullets, except they have their own "shots," exclusive to each other. They both pass through monsters which in turn can cause damage to any monster or spawn device behind it. The Pistol's Flame shot can be upgraded to fire two shots at once where as the Lightning Gun's Lightning will only have one shot that eventually grows to a larger size.

Sub-Weapons/items can also be bought in the shop, as well as stats and lives, after every 2 stages. Each character will have one Sub-weapon/items each at the start. Only 2 Sub-weapons/items can be held at one time (one for each character) which, in 1 player mode, can be swapped by pressing the space bar. Holding down the fire button activates a Sub-weapon/items.

Sub-weapons/items include screen clearing sticks of dynamite, Bombs, Maps, First Aid Boxes, Molotov Cocktails and 8 way bursts of bullets. Items will similar effects are found in game as well.

- Levels of play -
There are four worlds, each consisting of four levels. The worlds (in order of visitation) are "Forest", "Workshops", "Fortesque Mansion", and "Sewers", each with its own dynamic industrial music score. The players must traverse through each level, picking up power-ups, gold and keys to pass through the various puzzles and mazes. A number of "nodes" must be activated via weapon fire to open the final doors at the end of the level. Secret routes and hidden items are plentiful along the way. At the end of every second level the player has a chance to spend their collected riches to upgrade their weapons, increase the number of hit points of their character, purchase new items and improve other character attributes. Finally, at the end of the sewers the players will face up to the Chaos Engine itself in a last battle. Upon its destruction, the narrator of the game is revealed to be the Baron himself, trapped within the machine and studded with implants. His final words are: "I have guided you here so that you might set me free. The Chaos has ended... you will be remembered."

Hints:

- Level Select for Brug and CPU Thug -
World 2
Password - M8HT3WJ8KQ44
World 3
Password - 8HBBTX2MCHTJ
WOrld 4
Password - RCT7C4MYR854

- Level Select for Gentleman and CPY Navvie -
World 2
Password - Q3BK7PYNS794
World 3
Password - LV6W7QK0NYB5
World 4
Password - RW#75#FJ40TH

- Level Select for Navvie and CPU Scientist -
World 2
Password - LQ1LX2#81Q59
World 3
Password - C48YLCVLM0GM
World 4
Password - CRR56F82GN5K

- Level Select Scientist and CPU Navvie -
World 2
Password - 7LJLHPHMWBN1
World 3
Password - 3B5YXP5D#8H9
World 4
Password - H485R95CQT93B

- Over $40,000 in 2-player mode -
Enter the following at the password screen:
LQYDH8223VL6 - $40,000 for a 2-player game

http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/genesis/home/586467.html
http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/genesis/code/586467.html
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Chaos_Engine
