Sonic and Knuckles plays a lot like the other Sonic Games. You only use one of the buttons. The one button does different actions at different times. The coolest thing about it was the ability to plug Sonic 2 or 3 into it and play them as Knuckles, which was a first in America.

The graphics have a lot of bright colors and are well drawn without looking too pixelated. The story was kinda uninteresting. Again, you have to stop Dr. Robotnik from getting the chaos emeralds. This game is a lot of fun. If you like Sonic games, you'll love this.

Gameplay:

Gameplay focuses on Sonic and Knuckles, Knuckles not being playable in Sonic the Hedgehog 3 because of Knuckles' role as an antagonist towards Sonic and Tails. In addition, Tails has now been removed from play. Essentially there are two separate games to tackle, depending on which character is selected at the start of the game. Although the appearance of the Zones is the same for either character, their layout and some of the bosses' tricks differs noticeably at a number of points in the game (an especially noticeable difference is that Knuckles fights EggRobo, who has different and particularly smarter strategies). Zone differences increase starting from the Lava Reef Zone onwards. Style of play, however, does not differ significantly from one character to the next as it does, for example, in Sonic Adventure.

Despite no save file slots, gameplay is much expanded than in other games, as Sonic and Knuckles do not play all of the same levels. A significant difference between Sonic and Knuckles is that they don't have all of the same moves: Sonic can jump higher and run a little faster than Knuckles, and Sonic has the Insta-Shield, while Knuckles can climb walls and break through some of the blocked entry ways. While Sonic has the gift of speed, Knuckles can glide through the air with the greatest of ease.

As in Sonic the Hedgehog 3, there are two types of Stages: Bonus Stages and Special Stages. The Bonus Stages are entered by collecting at least 20 rings (or at least 50 to access the second Bonus Stage), and jumping through the bright ring of stars that appears above each checkpoint in the Zones. This time however, the gumball stage has been replaced by two new Bonus Stages. The first combines the slot machines of Sonic the Hedgehog 2's Casino Night Zone and the 360? tumbling labyrinth Special Stage (to retrieve the Chaos Emeralds) of the first Sonic the Hedgehog. If three Robotniks appear on the slot machine, the player will lose 100 rings, or all the rings below 100. The second Bonus Stage is a large vertical course, with magnetic orbs that Sonic can use to propel himself upward. Along the way he can pick up shields, rings or lives. He is chased by a horizontal force field that slowly moves up and, when Sonic is caught in it, ends the stage, and reaching the top of the stage ends it as well.

Controls:

A, B, or C Buttons: Jump
Down and A, B, or C: Super Spin
A, B, and C x2: Special Midair attack

Hints:

- Level Select -
In Mushroom Hill Zone, while hanging off one of the pulling machines, press left three times, right three times, and up three times. You should hear the ring sound. Pause and press A to be taken to the title screen. Highlight either Sonic or Knuckles as your character, and press start while holding A. The menu shows all levels in the game, but some are specific to a certain character, so you can't play those if you picked an incompatible character. Any time you want to exit and select a different level, just repeat the code from right after the pulling machine part. 

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sonic_%26_Knuckles
http://www.consoleclassix.com/genesis/sonic_knuckles.html
