He's back, and he's one oppumped-up opposum! SPARKSTER is jet-packin' into action as the toughest Rocket Knight to ever swing a sword. Grab the controls and blast through 8 wild stages in your quest to rid the world of the evil King Gedol and his allies - a pack of lizards that are tougher than a suitcase! Oh yeah, and before you get too comfortable - Axel Gear is here. This Rocket-Knight-gone-bad has a score to settle with Sparkster. Our hero will need his revved-up new rocket pack and powerful new attack moves to kick Axel's tail back to the dark side of the planet.

Gameplay:

Sparkster's gameplay is very similar to its precursor. The game largely functions as a 2D sidescrolling platformer, with an autoscrolling airship stage being the lone exception. The player is able to jump, attack with Sparkster's sword, or use his rocket pack to fly. Unlike in Rocket Knight Adventures, Sparkster's rocket pack charges up automatically.

A duel with Sparkster's arch rival Axel Gear occurs, much like in the first game.

- Gold Sparkster -

The main difference between this game and the rest of the series is the inclusion of six secret swords hidden within the levels. A player who can obtain all seven will face the final boss as Gold Sparkster. Gold Sparkster hits harder than normal Sparkster and his rocket pack charges faster. However, unlike Super Sonic from the Sonic the Hedgehog games, he can still get hurt.

Completing the game as Gold Sparkster is necessary if players want to see the 'True' ending. If the game is completed without transforming into Gold Sparkster, a message will appear saying 'Try Again.'

Hints:

- Level passwords ?-
Enter the following passwords at the password screen:

Green Rocketpack, Green rocketpack, Red Sparkster, Red Gems, Yellow Rocketpack, Green Gems, Red sword, Yellow Rocketpack - Final Level

Green Sparkster, Green rocketpack, Yellow Sparkster, Red Gems, Red Sparkster, Green Sparkster, Blue Sparkster, Yellow Sword - Level 2

Yellow Sparkster, Green rocketpack, Yellow Sparkster, Red Gems, Red Sparkster, Green Sparkster, Red Sparkster, Yellow Sword - Level 3

Blue Sparkster, Green rocketpack, Green Sparkster, Red Gems, Red Sparkster, Green Gems, Green Rocketpack, Yellow Rocketpack - Level 4

Red Rocketpack, Green rocketpack, Red Sparkster, Red Gems, Red Sparkster, Green Gems, Green Rocketpack, Yellow Rocketpack - Level 5

http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/genesis/home/586476.html
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sparkster:_Rocket_Knight_Adventures_2
