Spider-Man and members of the X-Men have teamed up in this side-scrolling action game to fight against Arcade, who has built a giant amusement park for the sole purpose of trapping and destroying the super-heroes. You first play as Spider-Man, who sees the X-Men get kidnapped by Arcade and follows them. Once you make it inside Arcade's park you can choose to play as Spider-Man, Cyclops, Storm, Gambit, or Wolverine, each of whom are trapped in a different part of Arcade's maze of deadly traps. You must navigate all five of them safely out, using their different skills and abilities while defeating baddies and bosses along the way.

Directions:

This is truly one one the most fun games I've played, in terms of pure action. Five different characters, each contributing his own part to the story, and each with unique game-play, make this an especially interesting and challenging experience.

Start out as Spiderman, on a mission to rescue the missing X-men from a suspicious trap.

Spiderman must break into Arcade's lair by disabling the security system. But the fun is just beginning, because Arcade has something special in store for each of our heroes.

Spiderman must now use his web-slinging and wall-crawling skills to navigate a creepy construction site, rigged up with exploding concrete and grenade-lobbing robots.

Wolverine gets dropped into a circus gone mad. Luckily he has regenerative power (when not using his claws), cuz he's gonna need it. Slash your way through crazy clowns, Tommy-gun toting Jack-in-the-boxes, and a host of angry toy soldiers.

Cyclops is going to wish he could see the light of day. Arcade sends him underground, where in addition to Genoshian guards there are Subterraneans who are immune to his Energy Beam! Also be careful of the trolley tracks, their high voltage spells instant death if you miss your ride.

Storm has also lost a major advantage: to neutralize her flying ability, Arcade has locked her in a water-filled dam! Swim through, busting all the generators along the way to free her. Her air supply is the real limitation here, so watch it carefully and try to keep some air spaces free as you move.

Gambit's challenge is a world of robotic Chess men. Use explosive playing cards to blast your way through enemies and obstacles, and catch 100 Stars to earn an extra life. But wait, there's more! If you don't keep moving fast enough, the Doom Ball will roll right over you! Grab the blue circles to push it back a bit. In a sticky situation, your Jokers will take out all enemies in a close range around you, but you can only carry two.

There are two levels for each hero, but the basics are about the same, with the following exceptions. In Wolverine's second mission, Juggernaut is constantly on your tail. If you rush, he just speeds up, so keep turning and attacking but don't let him touch you. Drop anvils on him for extra damage. If you don't beat him by the end of the level you'll be stuck between him and a bottomless pit. On Gambit's second mission, you scroll upward instead of right, but you must still keep moving because the floor will rise to crush you against the obstacles in your way.

You can beat the missions in any order, but you must beat both missions for each hero to move on to the final confrontation. Then after another mini-level for each of the X-men, Spiderman ultimately takes on Arcade himself. 

Gameplay:

In the first level, the player controls Spider-Man who must use his spider sense to disarm several bombs located throughout the immediate exterior and maze-like entrance to an abandoned building. After the player completes this level Spider-Man learns that the evil Arcade has kidnapped Storm, Cyclops, Wolverine, and Gambit. The player must successfully complete each character's level (each set in Arcade's deadly "Murderworld") in order to get to control Spider-Man in a final battle with Arcade.

    - Spider-Man's Levels: New York City rooftops with the bosses being the flying demon N'astirh and Shocker in the First stage, with Rhino and Carnage in the Second stage.

    - Storm's Levels: Underwater level with Storm having a limited air supply. Her bosses were various machines used to control the giant tank-like levels.

    - Wolverine's Levels: Circus-themed First level with the boss being Apocalypse at the end of the First stage, and a rampaging Juggernaut chasing him throughout the Second stage.

    - Gambit's Levels: Two stages, both of which take place in a cave where a giant spiked ball is chasing him; the first level boss being a giant playing card, the final boss a gigantic version of Black Queen.

    - Cyclops' Levels: Two stages, plus a final "Boss stage" after the Second stage; the First and Second in a giant mine complete with mine carts and multiple Sentinel, with the final boss being the Master Mold within its' own Final stage.

After completing each stage, the player controls each hero as they fight in similar-designed mini-levels themed after the "Behind-the-Scenes" of Murderworld. The only character to have a signifigant change is Storm, who now walks, shoots multiple bolts of lightning rapidly and calls upon gusts of wind, and jumps about four times the height of the other characters. The last level takes place inside a large room, where Arcade chases Spider-Man back and forth in a large Arcade-shaped robot, which operates like a Matryoshka Doll, until Arcade is finally defeated. The X-Men stand-by at the edges of the room, occasionally attacking on their own.

The two 16-bit editions of the game were nearly identical, except the Sega edition removed the buzzing sound that occurred whenever Spider-Man's Spider-Sense occurred. The feature had existed in the Super Nintendo version.

Controls:  

Start Button: Start/Pause Game

Spider-man
A Button: Shoot Web Weapon
B Button: Jump
C Button: Shoot Web Rope

Wolverine
A Button: Uppercut
Up + A Button: Extend or Retract Claws
B Button: Jump
C Button: Punch or Slash

Cyclops
A Button: Kick or Punch
B Button: Jump
C Button: Laser Eyes

Storm
A Button: Shoot Lightning
B Button: Whirlwind
C Button: Lightning Burst

Gambit
A Button: Throw Card
B Button: Jump
C Button: Wild Card

Hints:

- Level skip -
Hold C and press A, Up, B, A, Up, Down, Left, A, B, Right during game play to advance to the next level.

http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/genesis/code/586479.html
http://www.mobygames.com/game/genesis/spider-man-and-the-x-men-arcades-revenge
http://www.consoleclassix.com/genesis/spider_man_x_men_arcades_revenge.html
