The city of New York is certainly a great place to be, but not when there's the criminal element running about. Lucky for the NYPD, there's also the heroic Spider-Man on their side!

But now one of the biggest criminals in the city, Wilson Fisk, a.k.a. The Kingpin, has pulled of the ultimate plot! He announces to New York that a bomb has been planted somewhere in the city, and that it'll go off in 24 hours! What's worse, he lays the blame on Spider-Man, and now the webslinger is on his own, and on the run from the police. Spidey smells a rat, and he knows what he must do.

Spidey has 24 hours to find and disarm that bomb. And he must also clear his name, so he takes his camera to take convincing photos for his Spider-Man hating boss, J. Jonah Jameson, and the police, to prove his innocence. Along the way, he just may run into a few of his *AHEM* "old friends", including Dr. Octopus, Electro, Mysterio, and ultimately Kingpin himself!

Gameplay:

The Sega Genesis version was released in 1991 and was widely popular with comic book fans, helping to establish the success of the 16-bit Mega Drive/Genesis system. Critics noted that the game had superior graphics, sound and faithfully recreated the characters for the video game universe, even allowing the player to take pictures of the major and minor enemies in the video game to sell at the Daily Bugle to buy more web fluid. The game had four different difficult levels and a contest was held to see who could successfully complete the game in the ultra-hard nightmare mode. The additional ultra-hard challenge was that at the end of each round, the popular Spider-Man villain Venom would appear briefly and you had to fight him before you got to the actual boss.

According to developer Randel B. Reiss, this version was a huge commercial success: two thirds of all Genesis owners at the time also bought the game, and single-handedly convinced Marvel Comics not to cancel the licensing deal they had with Sega.

http://www.mobygames.com/game/genesis/amazing-spider-man-vs-the-kingpin
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Amazing_Spider-Man_vs._The_Kingpin
