It has been a while since the escape in Splatterhouse 2 and Rick is slowly regaining his sanity. At night, he is still haunted by nightmares from the place. Rick has married Jennifer and they have a son, David. In the final chapter of this horror trilogy, Rick finds out that an entity called The Evil One has kidnapped his beloved family members. He has no choice but to wear the demon mask with the supernatural powers to save Jennifer and David from the demon-infested Splatterhouse.

The third title in the series builds upon the gameplay of its predecessors. The game consists of six consecutive levels in a huge mansion. In a race against time, you have to wipe the demons from each room and find the quickest path to the boss area. After clearing a room, you can use an in-game map to decide upon the quickest route. Improvements over the second title include moving between rooms in multiple directions, multiple endings based on your performance, special moves for Rick and crisper graphics.

It still has a horror theme and maintains the same level of gore and violence. You can collect weapons such as a skull-smashing baseball bat, an ax and cement blocks. If you get knocked down, a ghost will try to snatch your weapon and drop it in another room of the house. Other collectible items include extra lives, health meat or orbs. These orbs build up a power meter. Upon completion, you have the ability to transform into a berserk mutant for a short time. The cutscenes feature real actors who act out the characters.

Gameplay:

In this single-player action game you control Rick, who has once again donned the accursed Terror Mask to gain the strength needed to enter a haunted house and save his wife (Jennifer) and son (David) from various evil monsters. As Rick you have to race against time through various floors in the mansion and jump, kick, and punch an assortment of monsters to save your wife and child.

Occasionally, Rick is able to pick up weapons (i.e. a baseball bat or a cleaver, among others) to use against the monsters. Once you defeat all the monsters in the room an in-game map appears to give you some choice in how you get to the end of each level. The game's storyline alters significantly if you fail to finish levels before the allotted time runs out. For example; in the second level you are tasked with saving Rick's wife Jennifer from being devoured by a boreworm. In order to save her, you must reach the end of the level to confront and defeat the boreworm within the time limit. Failing to do so before time runs out will result in Jennifer being devoured internally by the boreworm planted inside of her body.

This installment of the Splatterhouse series also introduced another power of the Terror Mask. During gameplay, you will periodically find Eldritch Orbs which will fill a power meter at the bottom of the screen when collected. When the appropriate button is pressed while the power meter is charged, you will witness Rick transforming into a hulking and more monstrous version of himself with the Terror Mask being seemingly fused to his head. In this state Rick is significantly stronger and can execute a special attack that involves pieces of his flesh extending from his chest area and acting as a weapon, injuring any monster in the vicinity of their reach. Also, instead of actually wielding the weapons he finds, the mutated version of Rick simply flings them at enemies, dealing a fair bit more damage than swinging the weapons as normal Rick would have.

As was the case in the first two games, the game featured many homages to popular horror films and helped to pave the way for the survival horror genre of video games.

Hints:

- Level Passwords -
Enter the following code at the Password screen....
Level 2: REISOR
Level 3: ETLBUD
Level 4: TEKROH
Level 5: ELPIEB
Level 6: LILITH
Level X: GOFMTS
Then you should go to your desired level.

http://www.consoleclassix.com/genesis/splatterhouse_3.html
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Splatterhouse_3
