A long time ago, a great empire comprised of Humans, Velox, Thrynn and Elowan ruled the stars. The Empire's currency was an energy source called Endurium. But something happened and this empire is no more. Furthermore, the small colony world named Arth has forgotten this heritage and technology. 1000 years have since passed and the people of Arth have rediscovered archaeological evidence of their empire. Using these discoveries, they create spaceships and form the Interstel corporation to govern the fleet. It's time to take the first steps back into space... but could it be the same enemy that destroyed the Empire still exists?

Gameplay:

Starflight is a futuristic shooter/role-playing game hybrid set in outer space. Much of the game takes place within a small starship which is seen from a top-down perspective. The ship navigates across the game's universe at the expense of endurium (a mineral which serves as fuel).[1] It is initially equipped only to haul minerals, though it can be modified into a dogfighter through costly upgrading. Also included onboard is a Terrain Vehicle for exploration and mining on a planet's surface. Before the game begins, players must name their ship and assign a crew to operate it. The ship has six posts: Captain, Navigator, Science Officer, Engineer, Communications Officer, and Doctor. There are a total of five species (including androids) from which to hire crew members; each person's proficiency is measured by their skill stat, which in turn is partly determined by their species.

The main hub of the game is Starport, the Interstel headquarters, a space station which orbits the planet Arth.[1] From here players receive MUs ("monetary units," a fictional currency), recruit and train crew members, upgrade parts of the ship, and buy or sell minerals and artifacts. The most lucrative source of MUs is the colonization of planets. The Science Officer can be consulted in order to determine whether a planet is capable of sustaining human life. Once the planet is logged, players may return to Interstel HQ to receive a reward; if the planet proves to be unsuitable, a hefty fine is issued instead. Player also incur fines for sending out distress signals or becoming stranded on planets, both of which result in a rescue ship being sent.

While in space, players can enter any of the game's numerous solar systems, each indicated by a blue 'star'. Once this is done, the game shifts to a smaller map containing 0-8 planets, with the star in the center. When a landing is ordered, pixelated map shows the various topography of each planet, as well as a cursor to select a landing point. The Terrain Vehicle can be deployed once the ship is parked on the ground, allowing the crew to drive across the terrain and scan for minerals. As is the case in outer space, a heads-up display monitors the Terrain Vehicle's current fuel level, which is replenished by simply re-entering the ship. If the Terrain Vehicle is destroyed or irrevocably lost, a fee is automatically deducted for a replacement.

At any time while traveling through space, the ship may encounter an alien spacecraft. Most alien races (Velox, Thrynn) begin by scanning the ship for potential danger, while others (Uhlek) merely start shooting. If the player chooses to arm weapons or raise shields prematurely, the aliens will interpret that action as aggressive and begin firing. Alternatively, the Communications Officer can hail oncoming ships in an effort to be friendly.

Hints:

- Easy money -
Land on the planet and capture any life forms that are present. Return to the spaceport and sell the captured creatures. Leave the space port and immediately return. The life forms will re-appear in the cargo hold. Sell the creatures and repeat this process to accumulate an unlimited amount of money.

http://www.mobygames.com/game/genesis/starflight
