What was once a happy, peaceful, productive city, full of life and activity, has fallen into the hands of a secret criminal syndicate. The leader of the syndicate has somehow managed to keep his identity a secret. The organization soon absorbed the city government (anyone can be had if the price is right). They even have the metropolitan police force in their back pocket. Looting, random violence ands destruction are rampant. No one is safe walking the streets, day or night...

As the chaos continued at full strength, three young police officers tried to establish a special attack unit. They were repeatedly refused by their superiors, most of whom had either been bought by the organization or were too afraid to make a stand.

One day, when they could no longer stand by and watch their city being demolished, they quit the force!

Adam Hunter, Axel Stone and Blaze Fielding decided to forego their careers in legal law enforcement and put their lives on the line. They are without weapons, but each possesses great hand-to-hand combat abilities. Take them into the heart of the city and battle the most dangerous wave of bad dudes and chicks ever assembled. Make the city a place where people no longer have to walk the Streets of Rage!

--from the Genesis Streets of Rage instruction manual

Directions:

Keep moving down the street. Attack and kill the people, or they will try to kill you. Pick up and use weapons to defeat your enemies, otherwise you must fight. Break objects found in the street to find weapons or food. Walk as far right as you can in the stage, until you reach the end. There, you must defeat the boss to move on to the next level.

Controls:

A Button: Police car help
B Button: Attack
C Button: Jump
Start Button: Pause

Hints:

- Bonus -
On Level 3 after defeating the boss use the police car help before he hits the ground and you will get a 5,000 point bonus! Be sure to save your power till you defeat the boss

Reviewer: Rimz
http://www.consoleclassix.com/genesis/streets_of_rage.html
