The story involves several mind-jarring twists, such as Mr. X's robot and the mayor being kidnapped and replaced by a bot himself, makes you question if you went the wrong way or what you could have done to change the story even more!

The game takes you through several levels, some even hidden from the players. From the alleyway to the night club, then a construction site to a lab of maniac robots, the game is sure to tickle anyone's fancy.

Play the game many times to see the differing endings (4 of them in all) and use my secrets at the bottom for added fun and possibly faster play! You are sure to want to play this game for hours wanting to defeat Shiva, Roo, and Mona and Lisa the twins (Mona LISA ha Sega is brilliant).

The grown move list, the more weapons, the great amount of oddly similar enemies, the damage by bombs, the insanely difficult bosses, everything will keep you wrapped to your computer just to say you've truly beaten Streets Of Rage 3!

Music and Sound made SOR3 above all else, alongside its flawless animation! The sound makes you feel as if you're actually in the streets, slashing up bad guys. The music is intense and sets the mood for each level, keeping you interested in the game, without annoying repetitiveness! I'd love to have this game as a soundtrack!

Directions:

It's your average beat-em-up game from the 90's. You walk down the streets beating up bad guys as you go along. This time Streets Of Rage has gone to a whole new level!

With a wide variety of weapons to obtain from enemies or mysteriously placed on the ground of each level, as well as fruit and meat lying around to help your health, and many secret areas, this time the game has gotten much more inclusive! Run, roll, walk, and jump your way through each level as you take on many characters such as Garcia, Goldie, Jack, and Ice or the ladies, Glorie and Grace! Select from:

Axel- One of the main characters who plays an important role in this game!

Blaze- The female main character who's a crowd favorite.

Skate- Making his second appearance now a bit older and bit more involved!

Zan- Dr. Zan is a major key to this game and a unique character! As well as 2 secret characters to help you take out the Syndicate's bosses from ruling and destroying the streets once again! Rack up points, save the day, and get a high score. Nothing much better! 

Gameplay:

The gameplay features a large increase in pace from Streets of Rage 2. The heroes move and attack faster, but so do the enemies. Enemy attacks can also be avoided with new running and vertical-dodge moves, though most player attacks deal less damage than in the predecessor. The level timer has been removed and was replaced with a "power meter" (see below). The end-of-level 'Time bonus' has been replaced with a "Life Bonus", determined by the amount of life a player has at the end of a level.

A significant change is that special moves no longer always drain the player's life bar, thanks to the power meter. The power meter takes a few seconds to fill, and when empty, the player is weaker in attacking, and takes more damage when hit and when using special moves. When full however, the player attacks and defends at full strength, and use of a special move will not drain the player's life bar at all, though it will drain the power meter to empty again. However, although the power meter makes a large difference to the player's strength in Bare Knuckle 3, in Streets of Rage 3 the difference is barely noticeable. The change means special moves can be used much more often, extending a character's normal repertoire. Though this is balanced by the moves being weaker.

Two new combat characteristics were given to hero characters: weapon special attacks and team attacks. Each character can have specific special attacks with particular weapons (any but the grenade). Exceptions are Zan (which converts any weapon into throwable plasma balls) and secret characters Roo, Shiva and Ash (since these cannot use any weapons). Such attacks, however, drain the weapon's "life bar" once the attack hits at least one enemy (in SOR3, any successful attack, be it standard or special, drains the weapon's "life bar"). The weapon disappears after expending its "life" or being dropped 3 times. Team attacks can only be done between 2 players, and consists on one player grabbing the other (either by front or back) and follow it by vaulting over (in the case, the grabbing player performs the attack) or performing a throw move (which causes the grabbed player to barge at the enemies).

The grabbed player, when held behind by the partner, can perform the shoulder throw technique to toss the partner into barging at the enemies lurking ahead of them. However, if the grabbing player executes a non-throw move, the grabbed player may be hurt and take heavy damage.

The semi-special (blitz) moves are also much weaker than in the previous game initially, but can be upgraded, with the 'power star' system. On gaining 40,000 points on a single life, the player receives a power star (maximum 3), enabling a more powerful blitz attack. Losing a life will cost the player a power star, making them difficult to preserve later in the game.

Traps in stages are brought back from the original game; enemies can once again be thrown into pits or off the side of an elevator. Trains and various electric/laser devices also make appearances. Other features to make a return from the first game in the series are co-operative attacks, and the inability to throw the heavy fire-breathers, where attempting to do so will fail, with the player taking damage.

There are also increases in enemy intelligence: more enemies can pick up weapons, block attacks, employ co-operative attacks, and some enemies can even steal exposed food items to regain health.

Controls:

A Button: Special Attack
B Button: Basic Attack
C Button: Jump/Vault In Grapple
X Button: N/A
Y Button: Double Hit
Z Button: Back Hit
Start Button: Start/Pause

Hints:

- Obtain Roo -
At the title screen, hold Up and B, then press Start. Roo will now be available at the character select screen.

- Obtain Roo Alternative Method -
When you fight the clown and Roo, defeat the clown first and Roo should hop away off the screen. When you lose all your lives and continue, cycle through the characters and Roo will now be available. 

Reviewer: Aggort
http://www.consoleclassix.com/genesis/streets_of_rage_3.html
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Streets_of_Rage_3
