The dusty badlands of the Wild West are crawling with more than just snakes, salamanders and prairie dogs. There's nasty vermin like the lowdown bandito Paco Loco, the bankrupt banker Simon Greedwell, and that dapper English diablo Sir Richard Rose. Each has a hefty price on his head. And there can be no peace in the valleys until the bounty hunters hit the trail!

Billy, believed to be the fastest gun in the West, and Cormano, rifle marksman extraordinaire, are ready to ride. Their reward for success is cold, hard cash. Their reward for failure is a cold, hard tombstone.

--From the Genesis Sunset Riders instruction manual.

Directions:

Shoot first, shoot fast! With only a single shot to kill you, you better be quick.

Now you're talking! Although the manual doesn't tell you this, don't choose Doofus Billy Cool cause he's a fool! Doofus uses a six-shooter.

What a moron! My man Cormano Wild uses a SHOTGUN baby! Even Mr. Magoo could hit outlaws with a shotgun. Yeah, somewhere down the line there might be something that Billy Boy can do better Cormano, but who cares? That shotgun makes me equal to anybody. Even Festus and Chester.

Four Outlaws to Look Four in Four Locations-

Simon Greedwell in Reechforem Gulch

Paco Loco in the Chatahoochie Choo-Choo

Chief Scalpen in T.P. City

Sir Richard Rose in Powder Keg Pines & the Rose Mansion

Goodies-

Bullet - gives six-shooter rapid firing capability

Dynamite - throw quickly, the fuse is already lit

Gun - a gun for both hands

Leather pouch - holds different things - shoot to open

Coins - money

Star - allows entry to bonus round at end of stage

When shooting using the A-Button, you stop moving but when using the B-Button you can continue to move. 

Gameplay:

Sunset Riders is similar to other run and guns, such as Konami's Contra, but with less emphasis on jumping and a greater focus on shooting. The game includes a total of four playable characters to choose from: Steve, Billy, Bob, and Cormano. The characters are slightly differentiated: Steve and Billy use revolvers, Bob carries a rifle, and Cormano is armed with a shotgun. The rifle and shotgun shoot somewhat slower than their revolver counterparts, but have a wider spread, making them ideal for taking out enemies without too much precise aiming. On the full-size arcade cabinet up to four players can play simultaneously, each as a different character.

The player can fire in 8 directions, slide to avoid bullets, and perform surprisingly acrobatic jumps onto and from rooftops, offering additional vantage points from which to fight. Many enemies can do the same. Unlike Contra (but similar to Metal Slug), colliding with enemies does not kill the player; only bullets, pits and other obstacles are fatal. Throughout the levels there are doors that can be opened, as in the games Rolling Thunder and Shinobi. Enemies may come out of some doors, while others yield power-ups. When the player emerges from one of doors containing a power-up a short animation plays, showing the protagonist being kissed on the cheek by a female bar fly or taking a swig from a bottle of liquor, and when done, throws it away, making a shattered glass noise.

Some enemies use stick-dynamite as a weapon; if quick enough, this can can be picked up and thrown by the players. Once thrown, the dynamite will start to blink at an accelerated pace, which represents the remaining length of the fuse. When it explodes it will eliminate both players and enemies, even if the enemies initially threw the dynamite. In addition, there are many opportunely placed boulders, barrels, and torches suspended above ground that can be used to the player's advantage. At the end of each level, the cash bounty is awarded to the player who inflicted the most damage on the boss.

Hints:

- Start with 99 Continues -
Go to ''Options'' from the title screen and set the sound to 0E and press A to listen to it. Start the game and pick your character. When your character looks up, press A, B, and C at the same time.

http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/genesis/data/586500.html
http://www.consoleclassix.com/genesis/sunset_riders.html
http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/genesis/code/586500.html
