In the year 2020, baseball finally evolved. There is no longer conventional professional baseball in 2020. Baseball designed by the Super Baseball Association has been very popular and is the best sport.

However, the truth is that the association has used a colossal sum of money to promote Super Baseball as show business. They have manipulated each player's ability using the control computer to secretly decide victory or defeat in every game. The players who knew this removed the connecting parts of the computer to play their own game of baseball. Finally, a fair game is going to be played at Cyber Egg Stadium.

Gameplay:

- Players -

Different from real baseball and other baseball video games, this game consists of both male and female characters, as well as robots. All three types of players have the same basic abilities and vary only on their personal strengths. In many cases, human players are better than their robot counterparts. One major difference between the human and robot characters is that the robot characters can blow up (or lose all their power) if they are worked too hard during a game. That can happen if you constantly make them dive for a ball, run extra bases, or even if they get hit by a pitch. Under no stress whatsoever, some robots, especially pitchers, will naturally run out of power as the game progresses. When this happens, they will lose all their abilities and be useless, both offensively and defensively. When that occurs, you can either power them up or replace them with another person on the roster. Human players do not blow up, but human pitchers can tire out.

When they are tired, they will pant heavily and throw the ball very slowly. This can be remedied by either an upgrade or, as in real baseball, switching to a relief pitcher.

- Powering up -

One thing that makes Super Baseball 2020 different from other games is the ability to power-up any character. During the game, you can earn money doing certain things, ranging from throwing a strike ($100) to hitting a grand slam ($10,000). Players can earn money both on defense and offense, and the money earned gets saved for use at any time during the game. Money does not get carried over to the next game, so it is wise to use it all before the game's end. Money can also be deducted during the game, in the event that you get out. However, earning money is far easier than losing money. You can lose $10 for every strike thrown against you and up to $100 for being put out.

At any point in the game, as long as you have enough money, you can spend it to upgrade your players. For human players, you can upgrade three different abilities: hitting, fielding, and pitching. Upgrading hitting power will allow your character to hit the ball farther; fielding power will allow them to run and throw the ball faster when on defense; and pitching upgrades (used only for pitchers) will allow a player to pitch the ball faster and more accurate. Robots can only be upgraded to a more powerful robot, and human players can also be upgraded to robots. When upgrading to a robot, the character is actually replaced with a more powerful robot that glows with power.

For all four categories of upgrades, there are three different levels of upgrade you can purchase, known as A, B, and C (C being the most powerful and expensive). Every category has different prices for their upgrades, and the upgrades offer a higher percentage of power increase. The most inexpensive upgrade is fielding A (12%) for $1,000, and the most expensive is robot C (80%) for $30,000. Keep in mind when using the robot upgrade that it powers up all attributes of a character an equal amount corresponding to the upgrade level. The power received from a non-robot upgrade for a human character adds on to the character's already existing powers. Therefore, if two players, one with a hitting power of two and the other nine, both receive a hitting C upgrade, the latter will still be considerably stronger.

After powering up a player, they retain that upgrade throughout the duration of the game. However, if that player gets overworked during the game, they may "blow up" and lose their upgrade. When human players blow up, they return to their normal state before the upgrade. Conversely, when a robot upgrade blows up, it turns into a dead robot. A dead robot turns gray and loses all its attributes, giving it a zero in all four categories (hitting, fielding, pitching, and chance). It can still be used during the game, but it is essentially a worthless player. After blowing up, an upgraded player can always be re-upgraded as long as you have the money. When you upgrade a player to A, you can also spend the money to have them further upgraded to B or C, although you pay full price for the upgrade (you don't get a discount for having previously upgraded). You cannot upgrade a player with the same upgrade they already have until they lose their power.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Super_Baseball_2020
http://www.mobygames.com/game/genesis/super-baseball-2020
