Superman, the Man of Steel, has a mission: protect the city of Metropolis. Born on another planet, he has super powers here on earth. Using the identity of Clark Kent, reporter for the Daily News newspaper, he conceals his true identity until needed.

"Look, up in the sky! Is it a bird? Is it a plane? No, it's Superman!"

--From the Genesis Superman instruction manual.

Directions:

You have three rounds that you must complete, each with multiple stages:

     1) In Metropolis, children have suddenly started disappearing and you suspect that The Prankster is at the bottom of this evil plot.

     2) Bodies of Metropolis' city employees are found and it appears that Metallo might be attempting to rob the Metropolis City Bank.

     3) And could it truly be? Lois Lane has been kidnapped! Only Brainaic could be involved in such a dastardly crime.

     And to make matters worse, Superman must contend with the criminal genius, Mr. Mxyzptlk throughout his three endeavors. Man that really ticks me off!

Stages 1-1, 1-3, 2-1, 2-2, 3-2, 4: Superman's uses the following Controls:
     A-Button : Sonic Punch
     B-Button : Punch
     C-Button : Jump

Stages 1-2, 3-1, 5: Superman's uses the following Controls:
     A-Button : Heat Vision
     B-Button : Punch
     C-Button : Heat Vision

Stages 3-3: Superman's uses the following Controls:
     A-Button : Heat Vision
     B-Button : Punch
     C-Button : Jump

Hyper Spin-
     You must first get the Blue Shield for Hyper Spin. There will be a sign on the screen where it can be used. After spinning downward, you must pick up a Red Shield to again be able to use the Sonic Punch. Used to drill down into the Earth.

Superman's Powers-
     These depend upon whether he is in a flying stage or a ground stage. When flying he uses his Heat Vision and when on the ground he uses his Sonic Punch. However, he can use the Heat Vision continually, but it might not be very effective. His Super Power will automatically recharge after being used. So if necessary, hang loose until it is completely charged.
Punch Up:
     Superman punches upward as he jumps. He also inflicts harm when he jumps down on an enemy

Pickups:

Yellow and Red Shield Increases life

Blue Shield Fills Hyper Spin - Changes to Hyper Spin

Black and White Shield 3000 points

Red Shield Fills up Sonic Punch - Changes to Sonic Punch

You get a new continue for 40000, 80000, 160000, 240000 and 320000 points

Disclaimer: This information is provided from the manual. Anything not covered was not in the manual. You are on your own kids, now place nice.

Gameplay:

Each level of the game begins with a front page of the Daily Planet announcing that some supervillain is wreaking havok on the city, and with Clark Kent a.k.a. Superman leaping into a phonebooth in order to start the level.

The game limited the powers of Superman to jumping, punching and kicking. He could only use his famous superpowers by collecting certain icons scattered throughout the level that were required to accomplish a certain task, i.e. a superpunch icon to break down a wall in order to further advance in the level. At the end of each level, Superman battled one of the a super villain from the comics and the intermission between each level was a congratulatory message from the Daily Planet newspaper.

The final level involved Superman flying up into Brainiac's space station for a repeat battle with the previous super villain bosses and then a final battle with Brainiac.

Controls:  

A Button: Sonic/Spin/HeatVision
B Button: Punch
C Button: Jump / Heat Vision
UP + C: Jump Higher
2*RIGHT: Run Rightward
2*LEFT: Run Leftward
2*LEFT + C: Running Left Jump
2*RIGHT + C: Running Left Jump
Start Button: Start / Pause

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Superman_(Sega_Genesis_game)
http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/genesis/data/586512.html
If you are a fan of the Superman Comic books you will love how well the followed the storyline of Superman's demise and resurrection. The only real drawback I can see in the fun factor is the repetitive battle system. Some times it seems like the baddies just aren't going to quit. Some of them are tough too. The Punks on the Harleys are a real pain. They are hard to knock off even with flying capabilities.

You use multiple characters through out the game. Super Man himself, The Cyborg Superman, The Last Son of Krypton, Super Boy, and the Man of Steel are all playable characters within the game. The bosses will give you a good challenge in this one. Especially the the last level boss.

Reviewer: Mariotroid Flanders
http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/genesis/review/R52535.html
