Watch TAZ's dust! That spinning superstar with the short fuse and gigantic appetite! TAZ whirls across Tasmania, hunting for the lost giant seabird egg to make the world's largest omelet! TAZ gobbles up everything! Snacks like chilli peppers really burn up his enemies. The hungrier he is, the wilder he gets. Explosive TAZ blasts through 17 levels of high-energy adventure. He rides waterspouts, skids on ice and whizzes through mine shafts in a runaway cart! Villains from the Warner Bros. hit TV series join the mischief, including the Bush Rats, Francis X, Bushlad, Bull Gator and others.

Directions:

The player must direct Taz through 5 stages in search of the Lost Valley and its Giant Bird.

Gameplay:

Taz can Jump, perform a Spinning Jump and a Spin Attack. Munch roast chickens to replenish life. Gain extra points by moving quickly through the levels - there are six stages and each stage has two rounds.

- Items / Objects - 

There are a few items and pickups such as;

Springp- Bounces Taz up to high ledges

Blocks- Destructible with a spin attack. Usually contain secret areas with 1-UPs/Chickens. However, some are natural and unavoidable obstacles to completing the level.

1-UP- Extra life

Continue- Gives 3 continues.

Star- Invulnerability from enemies. The only things that can damage Taz with a star is falling off the bottom of the screen.

Bomb- If Taz eats one it blows up in his stomach in a typical Looney Tunes fashion. Once you pick it up, it countdowns to 5 seconds before its explodes.

Chicken- Gives Taz some health back, much to his visual delight.

Weed Killer- Used for destroying giant venus flytraps however if Taz eats a bag he will spit in disgust.

Water Gallon-  Gives Taz some health back, much to his visual delight.

Hints:

- Invincibility -
Pause the game and then press B. When you unpause it, you will be invincible.

- Level Skip -
Press Start to pause the game, and then press A, B, and C at the same time to go to the next level.

- Mega cheats -
At the title screen, hold A, B, and C on both controllers while pressing Start on controller one. If you do it correctly, you will hear a chime. Now start the game. Pause the game and press A in order to have your health meter refilled when you unpause the game. If you press B while the game is paused, you will get partial invincibility. Press C while it's paused in order to view the number of the current stage, which you can change by pressing Left or Right. Change to a different stage number if you want to be warped to that stage when you unpause the game.

http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/genesis/home/586522.html
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taz-Mania_(video_game)
http://www.mobygames.com/game/genesis/taz-mania
