CRIME LOG

ENTRY: 080509.1

Welcome to the nuclear wastelands of the 21st Century where a society ravaged by lawlessness makes its last stand against the hordes of mutated goons known as the D.O.A.

The D.O.A., self-named in honor of the fate met by most who cross their path, are led by a mind-crazed kingpin whose real identity remains unknown. An army of D.O.A. punks stand ready to crush, without mercy, any attempt to eradicate their leaders... no price too high to pay.

To my knowledge, I am one of few surviving members of the Enforcers, a once elite crime fighting legion... they call me TECHNOCOP. I operate alone, packing state-of-the-art firepower: the .95 AutoMag, designed for internal explosion of human targets. A Tonari snare gun and criminal target locator round out my hand held arsenal.

My VMAX Twin Turbo Interceptor is capable of cruising at 200 MPH plus. Equipped with Apache side-mounted cannons and Pulse long range nuclear torpedoes, the VMAX transports me down treacherous highways to D.O.A. infested tenement buildings to hunt my prey. On-board crime computers provide me with vital updates on crimes in progress... still, nothing can replace that unmistakable gut feeling I get.

I must remain razor sharp. Flying axes, rabid rats, whips, bombs, and brute force lurk around every corner. Any sign of weakness and the blood on my boots could be my own.
I have witnessed countless atrocities committed without conscience by these renegade killers. My orders are to avenge these violations of society.

I log this entry with the hope that it won't be my last.

Gameplay:

Techno Cop is set in the near future. You are a cop who seeks to clear his town of all the criminal scum. The game consists of two parts; one driving-action and one sidescrolling-action. In the first part you drive around in your red Ferrari and destroy hostile cars; in the second part, you turn somersaults over gaps, use elevators and shoot lots of enemies until you reach the boss. After having killed / caught the villain, it's back to the road again for the next mission.

Trivia:

- Violent Content -
Techno Cop was allowed to have blood in it, provided that it had a parental advisory label on the game's box. The violent content was when a police officer shot a criminal, with the criminal being blown apart. However, when Razorsoft tried to translate Stormlord, another one of its computer games, they were required to replace partial female nudity with partial - if provocative - attire.

Hints:

- Refill Life -
Enter the following code at the Pause screen....
C - C - C - C - C - C - C - C - C - C - A - A - A - A - A - B - B - A - A - A - A - A - A - A - A - A - A
You should hear ''Technocop'' in confirmation and your health should be refilled.

http://www.consoleclassix.com/genesis/technocop.html
http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/genesis/home/586524.html
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Techno_Cop
