Far below the morning rush hour in New York City, four youths are watching their favorite news reporter--April O'Neil--on television. Things are pretty comfortable for these boys in their well-furnished subterranean hideout. That is, well-furnished if you're a turtle. A mutant turtle. Teenaged, no less. And a ninja. Okay, so you and I may not be comfortable, but these guys think the place is, like, mondo to the max. April is reporting a story from nearby Ellis Island.

Suddenly, there is a bright flash behind her. She doesn't seem to notice, but the television viewers do. "Whoa dudes! Did you see that?" Michaelangelo asked the others. Leonardo and Raphael stop their ninja practice and look at the screen. "What? Did some jerk in the crowd moon the camera again?" Donatello asks from his workbench. "No way, man." Mike answers. "But there was a most spectacular flash. It looked like an expl..." Mikey stops talking. His mouth hangs open as he stares at the screen. His eyes growing wider. Leonardo rubs his eyes. "Am I seeing things, or is April growing?"

"Your perception is growing, my son." Comments Splinter. The large humanoid rat--who also serves as a teacher and mentor to the boys--is standing in the doorway at the back of the room, watching the events unfold on TV. "If you will observe, the city is actually shrinking."

On the television, April has been alerted to the commotion. She turns and watches in amazement as Manhattan and the Statue of Liberty grow smaller and smaller and... with a flash the picture scrambles then resumes. Now, instead of April reporting from Ellis Island, the screen is filled with the face of Shredder, the Turtles' long time nemesis, master criminal and an all-around geek in general. "Listen to me now New York City!" Shredder's voice booms out from the speaker. "I have in my possession the treasure of Dimension X. It will allow me to take control of New York City today, and soon, the entire world. In my hand is the Hyperstone. I know you're watching, Turtles. You've gotten lucky in the past, but you won't stop me this time! Ha ha ha!" The screen fades to black.

"Oh man, he really burns my shorts," Raphael exclaims. Mike taps Raph on the shoulder. "You're a turtle dude. You don't wear shorts." "We know what you mean, man," Don says. "Shredder has really gone too far this time. It's time we put a stop to this, turtle-style!" He raises his hand in the air, and the other three turtles rally around, giving him high-threes. "COWABUNGA!" 

Directions:

Go through each level defeating more and more of the Foot Clan as you work your way to the boss of each level. Use your moves and many skills to eliminate all possible to get a free man. Run through levels if your in a hurry to get to Shredder!

Trivia:

- Critical Response -
By itself, The Hyperstone Heist is considered a good adaptation of the TMNT show into game form. Even being somewhat short the game makes up for it with high replay value. When compared to Turtles in Time, The Hyperstone Heist is shorter, has less special effects, louder and somewhat raspy digitized voices and loud sound effects, which are smoother but barely audible on the SNES. Thanks to the superior color palette of the SNES, Turtles in Time looks brighter and more colorful and uses special zooming effects in some areas and with some moves, but the Genesis includes more background layers, faster and smoother animation frames and overall faster gameplay. Both games share nearly the same soundtrack and sound effects, but the songs play faster in The Hyperstone Heist. Though there are fewer than half the levels in the Genesis game compared to the SNES game, each level is longer. Furthermore, The Hyperstone Heist is arguably more difficult, thanks to a more aggressive enemy AI and faster-moving characters.

Controls:  

A Button: Attack
B Button: Jump
C Button: Run
Start Button: Pause

Hints:

- Level Select -
At The Title Screen Press: A, B, B, C, C, C, B, A, START 

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Teenage_Mutant_Ninja_Turtles:_The_Hyperstone_Heist
http://www.consoleclassix.com/genesis/teenage_mutant_ninja_turtles_the_hyperstone_heist.html
