Create and manage the biggest and best theme park in the world. Build the highest and fastest roller coaster ever and watch the kids create "pavement pizza", but keep them happy at all costs or your profit and loss will take a turn for the worse! 30 different rides to operate, 10 shops to manage, compete with 19 other parks, hire and fire staff.

Directions:

Dominating the exciting world of Theme Park ownership is your goal in this strategy game from Bullfrog. The first task is to set up your rides within the available land, structuring convenient paths and queues and ideally leaving some space for bigger rides once they become available, and include some lakes and trees to increase the park's allure. Rides range from Teacups and Haunted Houses to the biggest most elaborate roller-coaster you can design, and water rides that loop around other rides.

Shops must also be included, so that the visitors can buy food, drinks and souvenirs - the cunning player will combine salt, sugar and caffeine settings to maximize consumer interest. Staff must be hired to keep everything running smoothly, and they will only work for what they consider a fair rate of pay.

You are competing against other Theme Parks, so don't let them get an advantage over you - monitor your success in attracting customers and financial viability closely using the supplied statistics pages. More important, ensure that research is adequately funded to produce new rides.

It can be played in three modes - Sandbox level lets you concentrate on the park design elements, while Sim and Full add more strategic features.

Gameplay:

Starting with a free plot of land in the United Kingdom and few hundred thousand dollars, the player must build a profitable amusement park, making money by opening rides and selling merchandise and refreshments. The goal is to increase the park's value and available cash so that the park can be sold and a new lot can be bought from another part of the world and start building a new theme park.[1] Newer products can be bought after researching them. Once enough money has been made the player can move on to newer plots. Plots are located all over the world and have many different factors that affect gameplay, including the economy, terrain and land value.

There are over thirty attractions available in the game. Depending on the platform, it is possible to tour the park or the rides. There are simple rides like the bouncy castle and tree house, and more complicated and expensive rides like the roller coaster and the Ferris wheel.


There is a focus in the staff side of the park as well. People employed in the park include entertainers, security guards, mechanics, and cleaners. Lack of staff can cause problems, including messy parks, blown up rides, crime and sad visitors. Occasionally wages must be renegotiated; failure to renegotiate results in staff strikes. Theme Park offers several levels of simulation, with higher difficulties requiring more management of aspects such as logistics.

Hints:

- Australia and lotsa cash -
Go to the password screen and enter the following.
Name: zarkon
Password: pan6caa85t9

- Megabucks -
For a cool $33,000,000, go to the Password screen, enter your name as DST, and enter the password 5AKCQSEBDS4.

- Unlimited Money - 
To get unlimited money in all aspects of this game, go to the password screen.
Enter your name as: ''ZARKON'' (without quotes)
and Enter your password as: ''8AAACAA9999'' (also without quotes).

http://www.mobygames.com/game/genesis/theme-park
http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/genesis/home/563349.html
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Theme_Park_(game)
