This masterpiece of shooting games takes you to a world of extraordinary proportions. It's the sequel to the explosive conflict that erupted in Thunder Force II. The unique backdrops scroll in three dimensions and offer you numerous surprises beyond imagination. Battle the enemy with a wide array of highly sophisticated weaponry. The menacing boss vehicles at the end of every stage have abilities unlike anything you've ever experienced.

Gameplay:

For Thunder Force III, the free-directional, overhead stage format featured in the previous two games is removed and replaced entirely by the horizontally aligned stage format. The horizontal format becomes the new standard for the following games.

The player is allowed to choose which of the initial five planets (Hydra, Gorgon, Seiren, Haides, and Ellis), to start on. After the first five stages are completed, the game continues for a few more stages into ORN headquarters.

The weapon system from Thunder Force II returns in this game, with some modifications. Some weapons from Thunder Force II are reused or modified slightly (the enhanceable Twin shot and Back shot remain the defaults), while others are completely new and exclusive to the game.

This time, when the player's ship is destroyed, only the weapon that was currently in use is lost (unless it is a default weapon and assuming the game is operating of the default difficulty settings). CLAWs also make their return and have the same behavior and functions, except now when the player collects the CLAW item, the ship automatically receives its maximum two CLAWs (again, CLAWs are lost upon ship destruction). Also, when using most weapons, the CLAWs will mimic the ship and fire the same weapon (similar to the Options in Gradius games). The final new addition is that the player's ship now has a speed setting, which can be increased or decreased across four levels at the press of a button.

Hints:

- Enable Special Weapons -
While playing pause and press up 10 times, B, Down 2 times, then continously tap B until the weapon meter is replenished. Press A for the claw. This secret only works with each new life.

- Two Player Mode -
Plug in the second remote and you can both control the ship.

- Unlock More Options -
During the title screen first hold A+B+C, finally press Start

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thunder_Force_III
http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/genesis/home/586535.html
