Check it out... We're ToeJam and Earl. And we ran into a small problem. More specifically, a large planet (I shoulda never let Earl drive...). Help us hunt down the pieces to our rocket ship and we'll let you jam out some tunes on our megawatt rapmaster. Deal? WHOAH!! We're bumpin' into some of the weirdest creatures in the universe: Earthlings. Boogie down with bewitching hula girls. Block a nerd herd. Or hurl tomatoes at a crazed dentist with a drill. Split up and scope things out. Or hang together to share your stuff. Pick up presents you can use - like wings, rocket skates and inner tubes. Or ones you'll wish you hadn't opened - like bees, tomato rain and school books. So grab a friend - or join the jamminest party you'll ever play!

Directions:

Spaced-out music lovers, ToeJam and Earl, are missing some vital pieces to their rocket ship. Play as the hilarious alien pair, as you make your way through level after level of fungi jumping, tomato rain, a nerd herd, a crazed dentist, and flying school books in this laugh out loud game. Using your Funkscan, super wings, rocket skates, and inner tubes, you'll take on all enemies in your immediate surroundings (and there will be plenty of them). From underwater passages to secret lairs, this is one detailed, hilarious, original game. Play alone, or challenge a friend to a head-to-head match-up.

Gameplay:

The game's premise starts with ToeJam & Earl cruising the stars in their spaceship, when ToeJam decides to let Earl drive. As a result, the pair crash-land on Earth, their spaceship broken into ten pieces. They must search for the pieces and reassemble their spaceship in order to return home to the planet Funkotron. As they do so, they face a variety of Earthlings that either stand in their way (by causing the player to lose health in various ways) or help by providing beneficial services (for a small fee).

The gameplay consists of the player controlling the characters around a multitude of levels in a search for their funkotronic space ship parts, while fighting earthlings with tomatoes. During the game, the player will also collect present boxes which contain special items. The items vary from food (to gain or lose health points) to rocket-skate shoes, and each different type of present box contains the same kind item.

Another notable feature of the game is the multi-screen capability. When on two players mode, if the characters get too far away from each other, the screen will split in half leaving each character free to move through the game. The players could even be on different levels at the same time. Players can assist one another by performing a high five, which equalizes health between the two. A special present, Togetherness, allows a player to teleport to the other player's location.

The two characters also talk with each other during the game, if they are close enough and if they're both not moving. When two players get together again, the characters also say things like "Yo, what's up!". They also humorously chat with each other as they ride the elevator between scenes.

To defend against the Earthlings, a variety of power-ups are provided in the form of presents. Each present appears as a differently-wrapped package, which must be identified either by opening it or by other means. Some presents offer increased mobility for a limited time, such as the Super Hi-tops (increased speed), Rocket Skates (really increased speed at the cost of control), Spring Shoes (ability to jump), and Icarus Wings (flight). Other presents provide bonuses, such as extra bucks (which may be used to mail-order presents at mailboxes or to have presents identified by the Wise Man in the Carrot Suit without opening them) or extra lives. Still others are harmful, such as Schoolbook (puts the player to sleep for a time, making them vulnerable to attack) Total Bummer! (kills the player on the spot) or Randomizer (scrambles all identified presents, requiring them to be identified all over again).

Health bonuses in the form of food items are also found; the better the food tastes, the more it heals, so a fudge sundae will heal more than a bowl of cereal. Some food items, however, cause the player to lose health rather than gain it. Most of this type are rotten, like moldy cheese, but some types are foods stereotypically disliked by children, such as cabbage.

The game has thirty main levels, which are arranged vertically, one above the other, and a secret level zero which you can get to through the left bottom corner of level 1. Players progress upward through the levels by means of an elevator, which appears on each map. Levels also have cliff edges, which the unwary player can fall from, landing on the next-lower level. The terrain also presents hazards such as deserts (which acts as quicksand) and lakes. The game could be played through with pre-set levels (Fixed World) or randomly-generated levels (Random World). In Random World mode, the level layout, Earthlings, and presents were randomised, increasing the longevity of the game.

There are various rankings that you aspire to achieve throughout the game, in an RPG-esque system of points gathered by revealing the map and opening present packages (you don't earn points by defeating earthlings). Each ranking raises your life bar and certain rankings earn you an extra life. These are: 1. Wiener, 2. Dufus, 3. Poindexter, 4. Peanut, 5. Dude, 6. Bro, 7. Homey, 8. Rapmaster and 9. Funklord.

The Earthlings represented in Toejam and Earl range from stereotypical humans to bizarre monsters from the imaginations of children. They can be either helpful (for a small fee) or harmful (the majority).

Controls:  

A Button: Use Item
B Button: Toggle List
C Button: Toggle Map
Start Button: Pause Game 

Hints:

- All the ships pieces - 
Pause game play and press up+A+B+C,right+A,down+B,left+C. A sound will confirm correct code entry. Every piece except the final piece will be present when game play resumes. The final piece can be found on the next level played.

Reviewer: Slipknot
http://www.consoleclassix.com/genesis/toe_jam_and_earl.html
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Toe_Jam_%26_Earl
