ToeJam & Earl, the dynamic duo of funk, have returned home after much interplanetary partying, but all is not well. Pesky Earthlings hitched a ride on their Rapmaster Rocketship and are now causing havoc all over the once peaceful planet of Funkotron... and TJ&E are to blame!!! 17 levels of funkified action, including fungi jumping, arctic sliding and bubble bouncing. Check the scene with the Ultra-cool Funkscan... Hey, what's lurking in the bushes? Everyone into the pool!!! Explore underwater passages to find secret lairs and areas.

Gameplay:

In contrast to its predecessor, ToeJam & Earl in Panic on Funkotron took the form of a side-scrolling platform game. In this game, it is revealed that a number of Earthlings hitchhiked on ToeJam and Earl's spaceship on their trip back home after the first game, and are now infesting Funkotron. ToeJam and Earl must capture the Earthlings in jars, and ship them back to Earth in rocket ships at the end of each level. A side-mission is to find ten beloved objects of Lamont the "Funkapotamus", the source of all funk in the universe, (seen again in ToeJam & Earl III: Mission to Earth) to persuade him to return to Funkotron.

ToeJam and Earl's primary method of capturing the escaped earthlings is through the use of jars. The characters have an unlimited amount of these at their disposal. Initially the earthlings can be captured by just being hit by one or two jars (and then the jar picked up by either ToeJam or Earl), but later in the game earthlings become harder to capture and may require as many as 6 jars before they are captured.

The player also has a variety of "funk powers" to assist in evading and capturing the earthlings, such as Funk Move (allowing the player to pass through walls and other objects) and Funk Scan (revealing hidden items). Other bonuses are also found throughout the game, including minigames such as Jam Out (a rhythm-matching game requiring the player to press the controller buttons to match patterns shown on screen) and Hyperfunk Zones (a time-limited race to pick up bonuses). Presents and food items also show up, in a manner similar to that of the original game. Progress can be saved by means of passwords that are presented at specific points.

To aid their mission, ToeJam and Earl have access to other equipment. Firstly, there are 'SuperJars'. These are a bonus item that can be picked up, and are one use, but will instantly capture any earthling they hit.

Secondly, the characters have access to an ability called 'Funk Move', which teleports the characters a short distance across the screen, allowing them to travel through impassable obstacles. These are a limited use powerup that can be found.

The 'Funk Scan' reveals hidden portals, items and earthlings. They are also limited use.

The 'Panic Button' causes ToeJam and Earl to run about manically for a few seconds, throwing jars in random directions and becoming invulnerable.

Finally, the 'Funk Vac' sucks up all earthlings on the screen and deposits them in jars. These are quite a rare item and so should be saved for tricky situations, such as the woman earthling who has several vicious pet poodles.

Hints:

- Level Passwords -
Enter the following code at the Password screen....

Level 3: R-F411W9Q986
Level 5: PJ04EK-5WT82
Level 7: MW0WEE6JRVF7
Level 9: VANDNEHF9807L
Level 11: MWAAK!8MDT76
Level 15: F!!NEHNW0Q73

Then you should go to your desired level

http://www.consoleclassix.com/genesis/toe_jam_and_earl_in_panic_on_funkotron.html
http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/genesis/home/586547.html
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ToeJam_%26_Earl_in_Panic_on_Funkotron
