Commander Keen 5: The Armageddon Machine is a platform game, the fifth in the Commander Keen series as a whole, and the second in the second series Goodbye, Galaxy.

Eight-year-old genius Billy "Commander Keen" Blaze, having learnt about the alien Shikadi's plans to destroy the galaxy, arrives on board of their ship, the Omegamatic, in order to destroy it and prevent the evil deed.

The objective is to reach and destroy the core of the Omegamatic, but before this happens, Keen must find and destroy four machines which protect the main elevator. The game begins with a top-down map of the Omegamatic. This is the level select screen, where you can walk around and choose the next level you want to enter. On each level, you have to either make your way to the exit, or destroy a vital machine if there is one on this level. Once you finish the level, you're back on the overhead map. 

The levels are full of enemies, mostly robots of various kinds. There are also many deadly hazards. If Keen gets shot or touched by an enemy, or falls into a pit or touches something hazardous, he dies, and you lose one life. 

Thankfully, Keen can stun most enemies with his raygun. He also carries a pogo stick which allows him to jump very high. Other items to find include: ammo, gems and keycards that are needed to open locked doors, bonus items which give score, jars of "Vitalin" (100 of them give an extra life) and the rare Keg O' Vitalin which gives an extra life. 

Easter Eggs:

1. In the level "Energy Flow Systems", go as far down as you can on the right, where you have to put the yellow gem. Find it and put it in or type TAB simultaneously. And open the door and go as far right as you can and jump up with holding the right arrow. You will go to a secret and below you there will be one of the Game engineers' name! 

2. To see the director's first name: a) Go to the level "Brownian Motion Inducer". b) Go to the end where you have to put the blue and the yellow gem. c) Look down and you will see the director's first name! And to see his surname a) At the place where you have 3 choices to jump up to the 3 doors, go to the first door. b) Go in the door. c) Go where you put the blue and yellow gem (you don't need the gems). d) Look down. 

Trivia:

Even though there is a Commander Keen 6: Aliens Ate My Baby Sitter!, Commander Keen 5: The Armageddon Machine was created after that one, because of the lead time required to launch at retail.

Featured in the game are small green bottles of liquid that when you pick up they say 'v'... This refers to the "V" Energy Drink produced in New Zealand. Currently their website is at http://www.v.co.nz.

There are several jokes in the game that relate back to Douglas Adams' Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy. According to the book, a nice hot cup of tea is said to be a Brownian Motion inducer. One level is called the "Brownian Motion Inducer". When you get to the machine at the end of the level, you can see a cup of tea being stirred inside!

Another Keen trilogy, called "The Universe is Toast", was planned. However because of the success id had with their FPS games, id stopped making Keen games.

There is an alternate ending for this game. If you can get to the Secret Korath III Base, you'll find a fuse which can be broken by pogo-ing on it. Thus when the shikadi try to escape in the end, a different page appears that tells you their ship didn't start and they were arrested by the Korath III police for double parking.

http://www.mobygames.com/game/commander-keen-5-the-armageddon-machine
