Commander Keen 4: Secret of the Oracle is a platform game, the fourth in the Commander Keen series as a whole, and the first in the second series Goodbye, Galaxy.

Eight-year-old genius Billy "Commander Keen" Blaze receives an interstellar transmission while working on a Photachyon Transceiver (a radio that can receive signals anywhere in the galaxy). While the transmission is choppy, Billy manages to figure out that the galaxy is once again in danger from an alien race known as Shikadi. In order to get more information about this threat, he sets out to consult the Oracle. But it turns out that the eight Council Members necessary for the Oracle's activation have been kidnapped by the Shikadi and imprisoned in the dangerous Shadowlands. Keen heads out to save the Council Members.

The game begins with a top-down map of the Shadowlands. This is the level select screen, where you can walk around and choose the next level you want to enter (though some of the levels are islands located on a lake and require you to find a wetsuit if you want to reach them). On each level, you have to either make your way to the exit, or find a Council Member if he is held captive on this level. Once you reach the exit, you're back on the overhead map. 

The levels are typically full of enemy creatures, such as poison slugs, deadly mosquitoes or hopping crazy mushrooms. There are also many hazards - pits, cannons, spears. If Keen gets shot or touched by an enemy, or falls into a pit or touches something hazardous, he dies, and you lose one life. 

Thankfully, Keen can stun most enemies with his raygun, although some cannot be stunned at all, and some are only stunned for a few seconds. Keen also carries a pogo stick which allows him to jump very high. Other items to find include: ammo, gems that acts as keys to open locked doors, bonus items which give score, raindrops (100 raindrops give extra life) and the rare Lifewater Flask which gives an extra life. 

Trivia:

The opening sequence (with the words floating by each other) is a parody of the opening sequence of the movie "The Terminator". When you select "Return to Demo" from the options screen, the story that's shown is an obvious parody of the "Star Wars" scrolling text opening sequence.

http://www.mobygames.com/game/commander-keen-4-secret-of-the-oracle
