The city of Mittledorf is in chaos - an evil cousin of the King is oppressing the people. Your cousin Sven is not evil though, so when he disappears, you head to Mitteldorf to try to track him down.

Legends of Valour is a role-playing game using a similar movement system to Ultima Underworld. You walk through the world in real time, passing texture-mapped buildings. The complex gameworld is over a mile squared and includes 40 miles of underground tunnels, as well a thousands of characters getting on with their daily business.

When designing your character, you can customise his or her looks, and this affects your likelihood of being befriended or fought. To make any inroads into finding Sven, you will need to join professional Guilds and complete quests. You have spells available to you, but will need to acquire more as the game progresses.

Trivia:

The UK version of the game was subtitled 'Volume 1 - The Dawning', as indeed, there were more chapters planned (They never materialised).

The UK version came in a very cool looking (though rather flimsy) box which was designed to look like an epic tome. The box consisted of an outer cover, with the actual box inside.

There were lots of goodies inside that box, too - A code-wheel (well, OK, so that's not really a goodie), a copy of The Mitteldorf Times, a letter from your cousin Sven, a large town map, an A2-sized poster showing the inner box art and a couple of special offers:

* Special offer 1: 'Digitise your face - Star in your own adventure!' - Sadly I have lost my leaflet, but basically, if you sent a photo of yourself to the developers, together with a small fee, they would scan your face in and send a disk back to you with an image file that you could use in the game.

* Special offer 2: Competition! I don't remember the details of this, but there was a lost, or imprisoned, King somewhere in the game, and the first person to find him, take a screenshot and send it to the developers would win some kind of marvellous prize.

So, all in all, quite a nice little package there :) 

Several UK magazine editors got their faces digitized to the game. The game appeared to get better reviews in the UK than elsewhere, perhaps as a result.

http://www.mobygames.com/game/dos/legends-of-valour
