As Agent 006, you are the world's only hope: the terrorist organization known as the D.V.S. has captured the blueprints to a new, powerful weapon known as the "Red Rock Rover". Your mission is to infiltrate an island occupied by the D.V.S. and retrieve the first part of the blueprints. 

Secret Agent is a side-scrolling platform game, where your objective is to complete 15 levels, allowing you to gain access to the "main fortress" which is the 16th level. On each level, you have to find and destroy a radar dish, and also find a bundle of dynamite and place it at the exit to blow it open. 

On your way, you'll be threatened by human henchmen and robots, as well as various hazards, such as spikes, deadly laser beams (which have to be de-activated by finding a floppy disk and bringing it to a computer terminal) or pools of acid. The only weapon you have is a rifle which can be used to kill most opponents, though some are immune to bullets or require a little more than shooting blindly if you want to kill them! Agent 006 has three health points, and losing all three will kill him (though you have unlimited lives) - not to mention that some hazards kill instantly! You'll also have to make good use of pushable barrels which you can occasionally find: they'll be used as stepping-stones to reach higher ground, but make sure you don't drop them into a pit from which they cannot be retrieved. 

There's a variety of objects to collect - ammunition, bonus objects that give score (such as bags of money, briefcases, walkie-talkies etc.), and an opportunity to get a big score bonus: on each level, if you find three letters S, P, Y and collect them in the exactly right order, you'll get a lot of points - but it won't be easy! You can also find a few power-ups: boots that speed you up for a while, goggles that makes a few more platforms appear (thus giving you access to unreachable spots), an "increased shot power" item which allows you to fire faster, but also a question mark which reverses your movement for a moment (very confusing) or a "1/2" fraction which slows you down. 

Trivia:

October 24th, 2005, Apogee released patched v1.0a shareware versions (and patches for registered versions) of old play-alike games Crystal Caves and Secret Agent after discovering that quitting these games under some installs of Windows XP (an operating environment that wasn't a twinkle in Bill Gates' eye at the time of these games' release) in some cases set the system clock back a century!

Credit for the fix goes to Peter "DOSBox" Veenstra and Crystal Caves' original programmer Frank Maddin; as the press release likes to point out, patching these titles up to 14 years after their initial release "has to be some kind of record."

The patched shareware version of Secret Agent can be downloaded at ftp://ftp.3drealms.com/share/1sa10a.zip ; the patch for registered versions can be downloaded at ftp://ftp.3drealms.com/patches/sa10apt.zip

http://www.mobygames.com/game/dos/secret-agent
