After travelling back and forth through time on Space Quest 4, Roger Wilco is back in the Starfleet Acadamy, serving as both a cadet and a janitor (so what else is new?). Cheating his way through the Starfleet Aptitude Test, Roger is finally given the rank of captain, his own ship (a garbage scow) and a mission: to explore strange new worlds (which no man in his right mind would explore), to seek out new life and new civilizations (that grew out of the massive amounts of trash Roger will collect on his way), to boldly go where no man has gone before (fortunately for him)!
Step by step Roger will have to unveil a galaxy-wide biohazardous material dumping scheme, solve the mystery of the disappearance of a fellow Starfleet captain and his ship, and confront an agent of an old nemesis.

Space Quest V: The Next Mutation is an adventure games in Sierra's Space Quest series, and just like its brethren, it's characterized by lots of humor (and lots of opportunities to die horribly). SQV is entirely mouse-controlled: you interact with the world by clicking on locations, people and objects on the screen, and you can cycle between various actions (Walk to, Look at, Interact with, Talk to, Give Order to - your garbage scow has a crew over which you preside!) by clicking the right mouse button or by using the icon bar. The icon bar also contains icons that allow you to access your inventory, quit the game or change the settings. 

Trivia:

Space Quest 5 is the second Sierra adventure game to feature product placement by the US-American telephone company Sprint. The first game was Leisure Suit Larry 5. Instead of text messages like in Larry 5, this time Sprint paid for graphic advertisement. The Sprint logo would end any communication transmissions, as well as appear on a billboard in the Space bar. See the screenshot section for examples.

This was the first Space Quest not created by both of the Two Guys From Andromeda (Scott Murphy and Mark Crowe). After Space Quest IV, the two guys split up as they need a change of climate and didn't want to be remembered solely for their Space Quest games. Mark Crowe would later go on to design Space Quest V solo.

Unlike the other five Space Quests, this one was in fact programmed by Dynamix (since Mark Crowe, the guy formerly from Andromeda, was working there at the time). The Dynamix logo appears at least twice throughout the game, and in one scene a couple of the motion capture aliens are wearing spare costumes taken from the set of Betrayal at Krondor.

http://www.mobygames.com/game/space-quest-v-the-next-mutation
