ollowing his humorous adventures in Space Quest III: The Pirates of Pestulon, Roger Wilco is relaxing at his favorite pub somewhere in time and space when heavily armed soldiers enter the room. Carrying a parting message from Roger's old nemesis, Sludge Vohaul, they plan to get rid of the janitorial hero, execution style. That is until a man with an over-sized hair dryer helps Roger escape through a time rip into the future.. Now Roger Wilco has woken up on his home planet, sometime in Space Quest XII. The series has gone to ruin without it's hero, Vohaul rules all.. Roger must quickly hotwire a time pod and undo Vohaul's plot. The most logical way to do this is to run amok through past, future and the end of the universe, having a few laughs along the way. If there's a few spare moments, he might swing by the galaxy's biggest mall, charm his ex-girlfriend whom he knows nothing about and provoke some brawly monochrome bikers living in the original graphics of Space Quest I.

Space Quest IV is the first in the Space Quest series to feature Sierra's SCI interface (better known as "VGA icons"). Sierra's standard icon set, used here, includes icons for Walking, Looking, Using/Pickup, Smelling, Tasting as well as inventory access. Roger Wilco is shown on the screen from the exterior in multiple viewpoints.

Mark Crowe, one of the Space Quest series original designers, has stated that Space Quest IV is the game in the series that he considers his 'tour-de-force'. He worked on Space Quests 1-5.

Certain sections of the game use an event timer that relies on your system clock. (even though the game speed itself adjusts according to the processor) This makes it virtually impossible to even begin the game on a modern machine - the mutant in the first section appears every few seconds, killing you instantly.

There's a secret code in the Time Pod that will send you back to Space Quest 3. (the top row of characters plus the first from the next line) Save before leaving your pod. There are also persistant rumors that there's a code for SQ2, but it's never been found. 

Space Quest 4 was available in four different packages: a 16 color version (supporting EGA, MCGA, VGA, Tandy/PCjr) with either 3.5" DD or 5.25" HD disks, and a 256 color version (supporting MCGA, VGA) with either 3.5" HD disks or 5.25" HD disks.

The Quest for Glory theme music is occasionally played in the Software Store at the Galaxy Galleria, made out to sound like a PC internal speaker. 

Aside from the narrator Gary Owens, all voices in the game are done by Sierra employees. Guy from Andromeda Scott Murphy even does the voice of Sludge Vohaul.

After complaints from a certain widespread electronics chain, the name of the store "Radio Shock" in the Galaxy Galleria was changed to "Htz So Good" for the CD-ROM version. (which is fine, since that's funnier)

http://www.mobygames.com/game/dos/space-quest-iv-roger-wilco-and-the-time-rippers
