Spawned from the success of Wing Commander, Strike Commander takes the same style of gameplay and brings it back in time to a much closer future. You lead a rag-tag mercenary fighter squadron, trying to make a living in a dangerous, chaotic world. Pretty and simplified dogfights in your blackmarket-purchased F-16s is supplemented by interactive cutscenes where you converse with your teammates, or go into town to buy new contracts. 

Fly against a very diverse set of aircraft as you find yourself fighting for and against many of the world's major nations. The concern of managing your team's armament expeditures and keeping the group in the black adds a side to the game that few simulators have.

Featuring an improved engine over Wing Commander 2, Strike Commander was the first in a series of three games that attempted to take the 'Commander' series in a non-sci-fi direction. Ultimately, they failed to capture the same crowd as the WC series did. 

Trivia:

Strike Commander was another example of how dedicated Origin was to providing extensive background for its games. A mock magazine named "Sudden Death" (meant for Mercs working out of Turkey) was contained in each copy of Strike Commander (it was released in Acrobat PDF format in the subsequent CD versions) that detailed the economic, historical, and political background behind the game's "post-depression" setting. Within it were several articles portraying some of the many characters in the game, as well as a collection of humorous advertisements.

This magazine was extremely well-written, and provided its readers with just as much entertainment as the game itself. One article that is especially good is the interview with a retired "enforcer" (a mercenary specializing in punishing those who renege blood contracts from "fixers" and wealthy contractors) whose trademark slogan is "Gule, gule" (Go cheerfully). The meaning of this trademark becomes apparent as well as his other slogan, "The gun for the brave, the knife for the coward."

If you've played this game, but haven't read the magazine, try to get your hands on it.

http://www.mobygames.com/game/dos/strike-commander
