ltima VIII: Pagan begins where Ultima VII, Part Two: Serpent Isle ended. The Guardian banishes the player, the Avatar, to the land of Pagan, a world under his control. Stranded in this unknown land, without his companions to help him, his goal is to find a way back to Britannia. The Avatar has to confront four Titans in this world who are embodiments of the four elements. He has to master different styles of magic and fight many opponents on his way.

Gameplay in Ultima VIII: Pagan is more action-oriented than in previous Ultima games. The Avatar is able to jump and climb and some puzzles are based on these abilities. Combat is in real-time and also based on dexterity. There are four different magic systems in the game.

A speech pack was released separately, which added voices to some of the major game characters. It was included in the CD-ROM edition of the game.

Trivia:

The planned add-on The Lost Vale was all but finished and ready for duplication before it was cancelled in September 1994 due to poor sales of the main game. In September 2005, a prototype of the game box appeared on eBay and was sold for almost 2000 dollars. Its authenticity was confirmed by Origin artist Denis Loubet.

More information on The Lost Vale, including a scan of the box, is available at PC Games That Weren't.

Like Ultima VII, the game contains an easter egg hinting at the mighty corporate power of Electronic Arts. In Mythran's abode, a magical, morphing object appears, which continuously changes shape between cube, sphere and tetrahedron, and labeled differently during each change. These are the items the former EA logo was made out of.

When double-clicking the item, the avatar kneel and says: "I have not the strength, nor the wisdom to master such power... but one day I shall!". Obviously, Richard Garriott was behind this.

In the original release of Ultima VIII there was the feature, that the Avatar, when hit hard in combat, fell on his back and had to get to his feet again before he could continue fighting. They later removed this in the patched version because players considered this very annoying. But you can still watch this feature when fighting a creature named Changeling. If the Changeling has taken the shape of the player and so you are fighting "yourself", the false Avatar will still fall on his back when he gets hit.

Pagan was not well-received by long-time Ultima fans. A large number of them ridiculed the action and platform elements of the game, dubbing it "Super Avatar Brothers". 

http://www.mobygames.com/game/ultima-viii-pagan
