The Confederation have been at war with the Kilrathi for the past 20 years, and you're just now joining the Vega campaign. You're a 2nd Lieutenant just out of the Academy, with some good work under your belt. You're posted to Tiger's Claw, the flagship of the Confederation Fleet. Will you help the Confederation to victory, or go down in infamy? 

Wing Commander is a space combat simulator interspersed with shipboard dialogs. Onboard the ship, you can save/load game, visit the bar to get the latest gossip, or go on to the next mission briefing, and the 3D space combat part. 

The 3D space combat have you sitting in the cockpit, where you control the craft like roll, turn, up/down, afterburner, as well as fire guns and launch missiles. There are four different crafts on the Confed side, each with different flight characteristics and armament. You will have a wingman on each mission, and you should keep the wingman alive as the wingman will help you if you issue the right orders. You can also taunt the enemy. You'll be fighting several different types of enemy fighters and capital ships, and even combat a few Kilrathi aces. 

When the mission is complete, land back onboard the ship and get ready for the next one. The campaign tree have both winning and losing paths. 

Wing Commander featured a hybrid bitmap/3D graphics engine that allowed even 286's to display detailed 3D graphics to an extent never before possible. With EMS available, it can display even more detailed graphics and in-cockpit animations. 

http://www.mobygames.com/game/wing-commander

Secret Missions

In the first Secret Missions add-on to Wing Commander, the TCS Tiger's Claw responds to a distress call from the Terran colony in the Goddard System. Once they arrive, they find that the colony has been completely destroyed by a new Kilrathi secret weapon, with no survivors. The Tiger's Claw is then ordered to pursue the Kilrathi fleet into their own space and destroy this new weapon - without reinforcements or the ability to resupply...

The Secret Missions campaign adds 16 new missions to fly. Unlike the main game, there is no branching mission tree - progress is linear. There are also several new ships: a Confederation corvette, Kilrathi and Confederation freighters and of course the Kilrathi dreadnought with the secret weapon itself.

Characters from the main game can be transferred into the add-on, which also includes a "Mission Selector" to fly any of the missions from the original game.

Trivia:

The Kilrathi Admiral killed in front of the Emperor at the winning ending was supposed to be Emperor's son, i.e. the crown prince, and father of Prince Thrakkath, the villain in WC2 and WC3.

http://www.mobygames.com/game/wing-commander-the-secret-missions

The Secret Missions 2 - Crusade

In the second add-on to Wing Commander, everything seems quiet at first. The Tiger's Claw is stationed in the Firekka system. The Firekkans are bird-like aliens who are applying for membership in the Confederation, with the Tiger's Claw watching over the diplomatic negotiations. Things change when huge Kilrathi fleets appear near Firekka. Even though the system has no military value, the Kilrathi are pulling fleets from other systems, all of them heading for Firekka. The Confederation is puzzled, until a Kilrathi defector is able to shed light on the mystery and the pilots of the Claw are called to defend Firekka and the Confederation diplomats from a Kilrathi holy war.

The add-on adds 16 new missions to fly, with a linear mission structure. New Kilrathi ships include the Hhriss heavy fighter, the Snakeir strike carrier and an upgraded version of the Dralthi. The player gets to fly these new Dralthi, provided by the Kilrathi defector, in special undercover missions. Many of the Kilrathi fighters are now manned by the Drakhai, the elite Imperial Guard, while the Confederation's defenses are reinforced by two new wingmen, Doomsday and Jazz.

Player characters from both the original game and the first add-on can be transferred, and the Mission Selector from that add-on, allowing one to play any mission from Wing Commander, is also included.

Trivia:

It's clear in playing this that they were already deep in development of Wing Commander 2 and intended this to segue into the sequel. Bluehair suddenly becomes a lot more talkative, actual characterization starts to occur, and some rather sly bits of foreshadowing are dropped into the plot. In retrospect, the inclusion of Jazz and Doomsday appears to have been done solely to set them up as major characters in the next game. Similarly, SM2 also features the first mention\appearance of Prince Thrakhath. 

http://www.mobygames.com/game/wing-commander-the-secret-missions-2-crusade
