This is a compilation of the entire Wing Commander II saga on a single CD. The compilation includes: 

Wing Commander II: Vengeance of the Kilrathi

Your carrier, the Tiger's Claw, is destroyed by Kilrathi stealth fighters. You are blamed for the loss of the ship. After being demoted you are transferred to a space station far off the front lines where you are supposed to spend the rest of your career. However, ten years later, you are able to save the Confederation flagship, the Concordia, from a Kilrathi attack. On the ship, you meet many old friends. Back in the cockpit, it's up to you to stop the Kilrathi and prove your innocence in the destruction of the Tiger's Claw.

Wing Commander II's basic gameplay is very similar to that of its predecessor. There are all-new ships for both the Kilrathi and the Confederation, however - only the Rapier returns from the previous game, in an upgraded version. 

While many of the weapons (including both missiles and energy guns) are also reused, new technology (used by both sides) requires new tactics: Since capital ships now employ "phase shielding", making them immune to normal weapons fire, only special torpedoes can damage them. Only heavy fighters and bombers are able to make torpedo runs. Before a torpedo can be fired, the shields of the target must be analyzed to find a way to get through, which results in a long locking phase during which the bomber must not move. The bombers are equipped with one or more gun turrets to protect them from enemy fighters during the lock-on. Another new technology are chaff pods, which can be deployed to lure enemy missiles off the target.

The Wing Commander series' trademark cinematic storytelling is greatly expanded in Wing Commander II, with many animated cutscenes continuing the story between missions.

Trivia:

One of the mission series in Wing Commander II takes place in the Niven system. This is a tip of the hat to science fiction writer Larry Niven, whose felinoid aliens, the Kzinti, inspired Wing Commander's antagonists, the Kilrathi.

Wing Commander II: Speech Accessory Pack

An add-on for Wing Commander 2. It adds digitized speech to all space combat communications and to a few cinematic sequences.

Wing Commander II: Vengeance of the Kilrathi - Special Operations 1

After the victory at K’Tithrak Mang, things are looking up for the Confederation. Several Kilrathi planets are rebelling and breaking away from the Empire. The Special Operations division of Confed is assigned to support the Kilrathi rebels and protect them from the inevitable Imperial counterattack. That's not the only problem, though: after a mutiny on a Confed cruiser, the crew have taken to piracy and attack human trade ships in the nearby star systems.

The first add-on to Wing Commander II offers 20 new missions. It also offers new ships: the Crossbow is Confed's latest bomber, faster and more maneuverable than the Broadsword. The new member of the Kilrathi fleet is the heavy fighter Gothri.

The story of Wing Commander II is continued with lots of cutscenes, featuring old and new characters. Player characters from the original game (and their kill scores) can be transferred into the add-on.

Wing Commander II: Vengeance of the Kilrathi - Special Operations 2

Zachary "Jazz" Colson, traitor to the Confederation, is being transported to his execution when he is freed by the Society of Mandarins. Meanwhile, Confed is testing its latest fighter, the Morningstar, on the Concordia. Performing the tests is the Wild Eagle Squadron, under the command of an old acquaintance: Todd "Maniac" Marshall. And while the Morningstar is still plagued with random failures of its jump drive, the Mandarin, under Jazz's command, have already set their eyes on acquiring the prototype for the Kilrathi.

The second Special Operations add-on to Wing Commander II adds a further 20 missions to fly. The new flyable fighter in the game is the Morningstar, which is armed with a tactical nuclear missile called the Mace, able to take out an entire fighter wing with one blast. Maniac returns as a wingman and brings the members of his squadron along. The story is told with the usual assortment of extensive cutscenes.

Player characters from either the original game or the first add-on can be transferred into Special Operations 2.



http://www.mobygames.com/game/wing-commander-ii-vengeance-of-the-kilrathi
http://www.mobygames.com/game/wing-commander-ii-speech-accessory-pack
http://www.mobygames.com/game/wing-commander-ii-vengeance-of-the-kilrathi-special-operations-1
http://www.mobygames.com/game/wing-commander-ii-vengeance-of-the-kilrathi-special-operations-2
