A dictator took the control of a fortress on the island of Kuhn-Lin.

Your mission is to storm the island and recapture it. This takes place over the course of 6 different sequences. The first sequence is Aerial Reconnissance where the fleet must be moved directly past the enemy or into a hidden passage. Optional is this Hidden Passage sequence, where the player will have to manuever around mines and torpedos. Once encountering the enemy, the General Quaters sequence starts, where the player controls anti-aircraft guns shooting down enemy aircraft. The next sequence is named Battle Stations and the player must aim and fire heavy guns to aim at the enemy ships before they get too close. Following this fleet battle, the player's fleet must be manuvered to the beach. Upon reaching the Beach-head, tanks roll out and the player must keep these safe from enemy fire. In the Final Battle sequence, the Dictator is holed up in the fortress of Kuhn-Lin and 10 different targets on the fortress must be fired upon to destroy it.


Trivia:

On August 31, 1985, Beach Head was put on the infamous German index by the BPjS.

Note: Indexed products by the BPjS/BPjM are illegal to sell or make available to minors in Germany and it is illegal to advertise for it in any form. But there is absolutely no law forbidding any adult to buy such a product. The only exception is when a game was also confiscated to that (or put on the so-called "List B" for BPjM games), but this is rather seldom the case. 

In this particularly case here, Beach Head was just indexed, but not confiscated.

However, due to the fact that advertisement also means the presence of a product on the shelves of a store, the product will disappear from the public. But it can be bought in supporting stores "under the desk" (per request).

BPjS/BPjM = German Bundesprüfstelle für jugendgefährdende Schriften/Medien = Federal Examination Office for Youth-Endangering Publications/Media.


http://www.mobygames.com/game/zx-spectrum/beach-head
