Goscinny and Uderzo’s cartoon characters are from the only Gaullish village in 50BC able to resist the Roman invasion. They can do this due to Getafix the druid’s magic potion, however the cauldron used to make this has been smashed into several pieces. Can brave Asterix and overweight Obelix find the pieces?

In this arcade adventure, it all comes down to you. The fifty screens you must explore take in your home village, a Roman encampment, and the forests in between. You have five pieces of wild boar, and these are used as you become hungry. 

Contact with wild boars or Roman soldiers triggers a one-on-one fight with punches and kicks. Defeating a boar earns you another piece of food, to restore energy once all lives are gone. Some sections are blocked until you collect their keys.

In the US version the character Asterix was replaced by a barbarian and the game's title was changed to Ardok the Barbarian.

http://www.mobygames.com/game/zx-spectrum/asterix-and-the-magic-cauldron
Playing a witch, you must assemble the six ingredients required to kill off your arch-rival, an evil pumpkin. The ingredients are all located in underground buildings, each of which can only be entered once you've found the appropriate key. The keys are located overground, and you must fly around on your broom to collect them.

The overground sections play like standard shoot 'em ups, as your broom is not affected by gravity and can fire bullets using your magic energy. Bats, fireballs and even seagulls are among the many creatures trying to stop you - contact will cost you more energy than shooting at them would. There are energy recharges on offer.

Once you go underground, the gameplay becomes a test of precision platform jumping, including some Manic Miner-esque blind jumps. The six underground sections can be completed in a variety of orders, but you will sometimes reach points that cna't be completed without objects from other sections, so a lot of back-tracking is required. Although you start with nine lives, they won't last all that long at first.


http://www.mobygames.com/game/zx-spectrum/cauldron
