Description

For the first time ever, you can actually talk to your favorite Pokemon. Tag along with Pikachu as it goes through its daily routines, taking field trips, going fishing and having picnics, becoming better friends with each passing day. Pikachu will hear and react to the words you say. The more you speak the closer friends you'll be!


Gameplay

The game begins when the main character is asked to try out a new device of Professor Oak's that is used to talk to Pokémon. The player soon meets a wild Pikachu and befriends it. The Pikachu's trust must be earned by the player and eventually it will come and live in the player's house. There are three different activity days: Pikachu's Daring Days, Discovery Days, and Play Days. Each day has a different objective (e.g. collecting food, going fishing) and the player can earn Pika Points, which is the currency used at Abra's Shop to unlock new items.

Eventually, if the player reaches day 365, Professor Oak appears and says that Pikachu has to be released, as it is a wild Pokémon. The player has to go to the woods where Pikachu was found and say "goodbye" several times, upon which Pikachu realizes he can't live with the player anymore, and, sadly, leaves. After the credits, while the player is looking around the front yard and reminiscing about Pikachu, it returns, and the game continues as if Pikachu was never released.


Development

In reference to Nintendo's rivalry with Sony, an easter egg was placed in the game: speaking "PlayStation" into the microphone causes Pikachu to become angry

Info

Hey You, Pikachu!, known in Japan as Pikachu Genki dechu (????????????, lit. a pun on "Pikachu genki desu" (Pikachu is fine).?), is a Nintendo 64 video game developed by Ambrella and published by Nintendo. It was first released in Japan on December 12, 1998, and in North America on November 6, 2000.

The game features voice-recognition technology used to talk to Pikachu, the star of the game. It is one of only two games that utilizes the N64's Voice Recognition Unit (VRU), a piece of hardware that can comprehend and analyze the human voice. However, It is the only game released in the United States to use the VRU. Similar technology has been subsequently built into the Nintendo DS and used in Gamecube games such as Mario Party 6. The player can move around and pick up items, in addition to speaking with Pikachu and can describe everything.


http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hey_You,_Pikachu!
http://www.gamefaqs.com/n64/250595-hey-you-pikachu
