Description

Enter a massive 3-D action adventure of amazing beauty and challenge. The pirate terror has enslaved the world and only Rayman's speed, agility, and magical powers can save all. Race and battle across 45 intricately designed areas - rainforests, jungles, narrow canyon passes, even into the mighty pirate ship itself.


Gameplay

In contrast to its predecessor, which was a traditional 2D Platformer, Rayman 2 is a 3D game, though it is still in most aspects a platform game. The player navigates through a mostly linear sequence of levels, fighting enemy Robo-Pirates, solving puzzles and collecting lums. Collecting enough lums gains the player access to new parts of the world[12]. Part of the lums are hidden in small cages, in which other freedom fighters or Teensies are imprisoned, and can be obtained by breaking the cages.

In addition to the main, story-based level sequence, there are also several levels in which the player can gain bonuses in a time trial. Though these levels have no connection to the story, they are visually similar to the rest of the game and feature several characters and items also found in the "normal" levels. Additionally, by collecting all lums and breaking all cages in a level, the player unlocks a bonus level in which one of Globox's children races against a robot pirate. When the player controlling the child wins the race, Rayman gains full health.

The main weapon available in the game is Rayman's fist, with which energy orbs can be shot. The orbs can be charged before shooting them, making them more powerful. At some points powder kegs are found, which can be carried and thrown at enemies or structures to destroy them. At various points throughout the game a big, purple plum can be obtained which can be used to immobilize certain enemies, and to ride on surfaces which can otherwise not be touched by Rayman. When riding a plum, the normal controls are not available and the player needs to give Rayman direction by shooting in the opposite direction of the one he wants to go to.

In addition to the plum, the player can also ride robot shells which need to be tamed first, after which they will allow the player to sit on their back and indicate the direction. During such sequences the player can not shoot. In some levels, Rayman gains the ability to fly; in one level by use of his helicopter hair, in another by holding on to a flying gunpowder barrel.




Setting

The game centers on the invasion of the world where the game takes place (the Glade of Dreams[8]) by robot pirates from outer space. In order to repair the damage to the world and defeat the invasion force, Rayman has to collect 1000 pieces (800 in the PS1 version) of the world's core (called Lums) and reunite four magical masks which will awaken Polokus, the world's spirit. Polokus has gone into hiding a long time ago, however as he is the creator of "all that is and will be", he is the world's last hope.

 Plot

Rayman 2 takes place in a world called The Glade of Dreams. An army of Robot Pirates, led by Admiral Razorbeard, invades this world and destroys the Heart of the World, the world core. This greatly weakens the resistance's power and disables Rayman's powers, leading to his capture.

Globox, a friend of Rayman, is later also captured and put in the same cell as Rayman aboard the Pirates' prison ship. Globox restores one of his powers through a silver lum given to him by Ly, a fairy. Rayman escapes the prison ship, and is separated from Globox again. He learns that in order to stand a chance against the Pirates, he needs to find 4 ancient, magic masks to awaken Polokus, the spirit of the world[10]. He travels through the Glade of Dreams via the Hall of Doors, a magical place linked to various locations in the world, controlled by the ancient Teensies[10].

In the course of the game, Rayman frees Globox who had been captured again, and they continue together for a short while until Globox departs again to go find his family. Later, Rayman finds Globox's wife Uglette and learns that he has been imprisoned on the Prison Ship. Rayman also encounters his friend Clark, a strongman who has stomach problems due to eating rusty pirates; to continue through the level, Rayman has to cure Clark by means of an elixir.

Eventually Rayman recovers the four masks and awakens Polokus, who makes quick work of the pirates on land. In the air however, he has no power, and Rayman is tasked to dispose of the Pirates' Prison Ship, where Admiral Razorbeard also has his headquarters. In a final battle Rayman fights Razorbeard, who is controlling a giant robot, the Grolgoth. Eventually Rayman destroys the robot and while Razorbeard escapes in a small escape pod, the Prison Ship explodes. Rayman is presumed dead and only one of his shoes is found, but during his funeral he appears again, walking on a crutch.
Screenshot of the Fairy Glade, the second level of the game
[edit] Narrative

The game is played from a third person perspective and the player has control over the camera, though in some situations this control is limited to only certain angles. At several points in the game the player loses control during cut scenes, which typically show dialogue between characters. The gameplay is also interrupted by a cut scene taking place in Admiral Razorbeards room aboard the prison ship several times. During these scenes, Rayman is not present.

By collecting lums, the player unlocks more information about the game world and its backstory, which can be read by standing still and pressing a specific button for some time. Some back story is also obtained through (optional) instructions from Murfy, a "flying encyclopedia[11]" who provides explanations on all kinds of gameplay elements.


http://www.gamefaqs.com/n64/198423-rayman-2-the-great-escape
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rayman_2:_The_Great_Escape
