Description

Radio control racing done right! Rip it up with realistic physics, power-packed weapons and interactive environments! Blast through traffic with bottle rockets, water balloons and oil slicks! Four-player racing madness! Stunt Track, Battle Tag and four different racing modes. Barrel through museums, trash toy stores or design your own track with our custom editor! True R/C physics! Objects and surfaces affect the action just like real life.


Gameplay

The game featured 28 stock cars and 14 tracks including a stunt arena for free roaming. Cars come in three fuel variants; electric, glow (internal combustion) and special. The players driving ability will place them into various categories so that they race against other cars of similar capabilities. These capabilities are classified in categories which are: Rookie, Amateur, Advanced, Semi-Pro and Pro. Tracks are also categorized depending on their difficulty to master and win. These categories are: Easy, Medium, Hard and Extreme. Cars and tracks are both unlocked through success in the game's tournament modes.

Single Race allows 2-4 players on the Console Versions and 2-12 players on the PC Version to race on the normal, single-player tracks. Within each race, competitors race to be the first to complete a pre-set number of laps of the circuit. To aid them in this there are a variety of lightning-bolt shaped pick-ups lying around the track. Collecting one of these provides the player with a random weapon varying from oil slicks to fireworks to batteries that increase your speed for a short period of time. The worse a player is doing in the race, the more likely one of the better weapons will be obtained, and vice versa.



Legacy

Although Acclaim Entertainment is now defunct, fans support the game by producing fan-made vehicles and courses, and by operating multi-player servers. Fans have also created a Windows-based chat/lobby client called "RV House" that allows players to connect and play together. While new players may experience a significant learning curve, the community remains active with records of fastest laps and new courses and cars still being added. The community has recently acquired the source code of the game and a new Re-Volt version 1.2 is currently in developmen


