Description

Scavenge through three games in one! Reptar Rally: The babies visit Reptar on his candy island to help him collect as many sweets as possible. Angelica's Temple of Gloom: The babies are transported to the ancient Aztec Temple of Kokobola. Find all the pieces to the broken Aztec statue before Angelica does, or else... Pirate Treasure Hunt: Play diaper-to-diaper and search through a sunken pirate ship looking for hidden tresure!


Gameplay

Players control one of four babies including Tommy, Chuckie, Phil, and Lil. Angelica serves as the main antagonist, trying to snatch the items in question before the others. She also may take away items from you if you come in contact with her. Susie, Spike, and Grandpa (Lou Pickles) serve as allies doing various tasks such as giving you extra cookies when they come in contact with you. Dil Pickles, who became Tommy's baby brother in The Rugrats Movie, has returned on the "Mystery" space. He drives the Reptar Wagon and changes the identity of the spaces on the board.

There are three different game boards, Reptar Rally being the most distinctive. There is also a hidden square option that can be turned on or off at the start screen. Toy cards give you special abilities. One lets you turn into Reptar and travel up to five squares and stop anywhere you like, which can only be achieved normally when a "Set Spin" is selected randomly from the spinner.

The main goal, however, is to collect the most of a specific item. Stages usually begin with a brief cut scene to explain what needs to be collected, then the game begins. Items can be gathered after landing on the "Search" space, which can be recognized by the magnifying glass design. Searching may lead you to find only a dust bunny, but it is the only way to acquire certain items. If you find the "Double Search Power" tool when searching, you may search twice every turn.

You can also collect cookies, toy cards, and energy. Cookies are a form of currency that may provide opportunities for special bonuses. Toy cards can be purchases if one lands on a toy card space. They stretch the limits of game play for a single turn. Energy is needed to move from one space to another. If you run out of energy, you will begin to nap; there are also spaces for different sleep amounts.




Game boards

"Angelica's Temple of Gloom" has an Aztec setting. Stu has brought home statues that Angelica accidentally shatters. The babies must recover all of the missing statue pieces before Angelica finds hers to win.

"Pirate Treasure Hunt" involves the babies scuba diving under water to find hidden treasure near a sunken ship. After Stu shows the kids his replica of a pirate ship, Grandpa Lou tells (the beginning of) a story about pirates with treasure. They must find all four kinds of "pirate treasure" to win.

"Reptar Rally" is the only stage that changes the babies into dinosaurs (resembling the form of Reptar). Here they collect different types of candy on an island made of sweets. If they successfully collect candy from everyone else's stash, they win.

http://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Les_Razmoket_:_la_Chasse_aux_tr%C3%A9sors
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rugrats:_Scavenger_Hunt
http://www.gamefaqs.com/n64/915333-rugrats-scavenger-hunt
