Description

It's one big multi-player luv-in! All your favorite South Park characters are waiting for you at Chef's Luv Shack. Spreading the hot buttered game lovin' with dozens of crazy mini-games. Testing your South Park knowledge with outrageous trivia questions. And telling it like it is with insane sound-bites! Featuring authentic voices from South Park including Isaac Hayes as Chef!

Characters

In the game, the player gets to choose to be one of four characters, Eric Cartman, Kenny McCormick, Kyle Broflovski, or Stan Marsh.

Gameplay

The game intermittently switches between questions and minigames, with a minigame proceeding every three questions. Players score points by answering questions first (correctly) and based on minigame ranking. Players lose points for questions answered incorrectly. The game is exclusively multiplayer, as when played by one player, there is no AI, so that player always wins, even with a negative score. Players have the option to "shaft" (pass on) a question to another player after opting to answer the question. The "shafted" player can then pass the question on again, or choose to answer the question him or herself. When "shafting", a question will always be answered, by the last "shafted" person.


Mini games

   1. Asses in Space (based on Asteroids)
   2. Avalanche (based on SkiFree)
   3. Bad Kitty (based on Donkey Kong)
   4. BEEFCAKE!
   5. Bees at the Picnic (based on both Galaga and an Intellivision game called Buzz Bombers)
   6. Chicken Lover (shell game)
   7. Destroy Bugs
   8. Eat This (pie-eating contest)
   9. Find The Can
  10. Frog Toss (based on the carnival game)
  11. Herd Chickens
  12. Go-Kart Racing (based on Super Sprint)
  13. Parachute Dropping (based on Balloon Fight)
  14. Pizza Patrol (based on Paperboy)
  15. Rodeo (using a mechanical bull)
  16. Round Up
  17. Save Scuzzlebutt (based on classic Nintendo Game & Watch game)
  18. Snow Fort (based on Warlords)
  19. Soda Shake
  20. Spank The Monkey (based on Simon)
  21. Stampede (based on the Running of the Bulls)
  22. Tug-Oh-War (not available in 1 player mode)
  23. Whack a Zombie (based on the Whac-A-Mole arcade game)


Reception

The game received poor reviews by critics. GameSpot gave the game a 3.9 out of 10 calling it a Mario Party rip off. The Nintendo 64 version was the most positive review of this game but was still mediocre




http://www.gamefaqs.com/n64/198717-south-park-chefs-luv-shack
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/South_Park:_Chef%27s_Luv_Shack
