Description

Attention defenders of Naboo! The Trade Federation must be stopped! Storm through more than 15 missions over land, sea and space as your freedom fighters rally against the droid armies. Take control of 7 vehicles: the Naboo starfighter, Gian speeder, and new craft like the heavy STAP, Trade Federation gunboat and more. More than 15 missions: escape from Theed, search & destroy, sabotage, reconnaissance, convoy. Battle against Trade Federation droid starfighters, AATs, destroyer droids, battle droids.
Change vehicles mid-mission through specially designated hangars.

Gameplay

A follow-up to Star Wars: Rogue Squadron, Battle for Naboo is a fast-paced, arcade-style action game. Each of the game's 15 levels introduces mission objectives that must be completed to progress to the next level. Enemy aircraft are primarily composed of Trade Federation Droid starfighters and air mines. Ground defenses are more varied and include battle and destroyer droids, laser and missile turrets, Armored Assault Tanks (AATs), Multi-troop transports (MTTs), gunboats and Single trooper aerial platform (STAPs).

The heads-up display features a health meter, a radar and an ammunition count for secondary weapons. Depending on the level, the player can control several different air, land and water vehicles. Aircraft are the Naboo Starfighter, the Naboo Bomber and Police Cruiser, while land and watercraft are the Flash and Gian speeders, the Trade Federation Gunboat and the Heavy STAP. Each vehicle offers a unique armament arrangement, as well as varying degrees of speed and maneuverability. The game initially restricts the player to a particular craft for each level; however, after a level is completed, it can be replayed with any available craft that falls within its air, land or watercraft specification. Some levels offer the player the option to change craft mid-level.[10] Seven bonus power-ups are hidden in different levels throughout the game. These bonuses improve a craft's weapons or durability and are applied to each eligible craft for the remainder of the game.

The player's performance is measured throughout the game, and performance statistics are checked after each level against four medal benchmarks. Each benchmark contains six categories: completion time, number of enemies destroyed, shot accuracy, number of friendly craft and structures saved, number of bonuses collected and lives remaining. If a player's performance exceeds one of the level's four benchmarks in all five categories, a medal—bronze, silver, gold or platinum—is awarded on completion. Unlike other medal benchmarks, platinum medal benchmarks are undisclosed to the player. Acquiring medals promotes the player's rank and helps unlock hidden content




http://www.gamefaqs.com/n64/914230-star-wars-episode-i-battle-for-naboo
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Star_Wars:_Episode_I:_Battle_for_Naboo
