Description

Lois Lane and Jimmy Olsen have disappeared - they've been kidnapped by the malevolent powers of Lex Luthor and Braniac, who have brought them into a virtual reality version of Metropolis. Superman must come to the rescue! The Man of Steel must work through this virtual dimension and find a way to conquer the evil masterminds that created it. Experience the incredible powers of Superman first-hand as you battle to rescue Lois Lane from the clutches of Metallo, then attempt to free Jimmy Olsen from the steel grip of Darkseid. Race into outer space to face Braniac's evil alien technology. Above all else, destroy Luthor's deadly dream of a virtual reality Metropolis!

Plot

Lex Luthor has created a virtual version of Metropolis. During a battle with Lex in his LexCorp office, Superman manages to witness the trapping of his friends Lois Lane, Jimmy Olsen and Professor Emil Hamilton within the virtual realm. Superman enters Lex's interdimensional portal, where Luthor negotiates to Superman that he must fly through his maze of rings scattered across virtual Metropolis in order to save his friends. Other villains Superman battles in the game include Parasite and Brainiac.

Gameplay

Superman is an action-adventure platform game where the player assumes the role of Superman and is challenged to complete various tasks and puzzles throughout the game. Most of the levels in the game are restricted to two types of gameplay; in some levels, referred to as Ride Levels in the game's instruction manual, Superman is instructed to fly through a series of hoops by Lex Luthor; in between, he is also tasked to perform certain feats such as battling Luthor's minions the Dark Shadows and rescuing civilians from natural or artificial disasters.

In other levels, referred to as Maze Levels in the game's instruction manual, Superman has uncovered one of his friends from within one of Luthor's outposts, and must escape with them and defeat a boss. These levels are generally more rooted in action-adventure, and make great use of puzzle-solving. The game's "virtual Metropolis" in which these stages take place is filled with what the developers called "Kryptonite fog" in an apparent effort by Lex Luthor to diminish Superman's abilities (which is actually distance fog and is used as a technique to mask the game's poor 


http://www.gamefaqs.com/n64/198862-superman/data
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Superman_%281999_video_game%29
