Description


One-on-one fighting! Tag team tournaments! Just choose your character and then select the location. All the environments are modeled after scenes from your favorite Tom & Jerry episodes. An "All-Star" line-up of characters such as Tom, Jerry, Butch, Spike, Tuffy, and Duckling help to make this the ultimate Tom & Jerry experience! Weapons include shovels, bombs, red-hot pokers, tennis rackets, furniture and an assortment of fruit, plus there are countless other tricks, traps and surprises to be found. It doesn't get any better than this. So go to your corner, wait for the bell and come out fighting. Just keep an eye out behind you, because no one fights fair in this game!


Gameplay

The objective of the game is to defeat your opponent in a set amount of time and rounds. There are 3 types of gameplay. One is Challenge mode, where the player fights a certain set of characters (The opponents are the enemies of the character chosen from classic Tom and Jerry cartoons) until either Monster Jerry, a bigger and scary mutated Jerry, or Robot Cat, one of Tom's creations, is fought and killed. Another is Vs., where a basic one-on-one fight is held. The last is Tag Battle, where a player work by himself or with a friend to fight two enemies.

The four modes of play are single player, versus, tag team, and team play. New characters are unlocked if the player wins against the computer. Characters include Tom, Jerry, Butch, Spike, Tyke, Robot Cat, Eagle, Lion, Nibbles, Monster Jerry, and Duckling, who use more than 75 weapons to beat each other with. Costumes are also unlocked, allowing specific characters to have more attire. 12 destructible environments include a kitchen, beach, snowy winter, cruise ship, junk yard, unstable construction site, haunted house, mad scientist lab, western town, Towering Inferno, and Hell




http://www.gamefaqs.com/n64/437520-tom-and-jerry-in-fists-of-furry
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tom_and_Jerry_in_Fists_of_Furry
