Description

Trouble up to your bow tie! Ed's toxic goo turned the world crazy - tomatoes are rioting, carrots are biting back, and Grogh the Hellish wants Ed's head! Help Ed right the wrongs in 12 wildly animated worlds -insane puzzles, killer vegetables, dangerous dungeons, and more. All caused by Ed. It's the biggest trouble anyone has ever gotten into, or out of! A strange brew of action adventure and mind-bending puzzles!


Story

The game begins with Ed, the protagonist, cleaning up the spaceship he is on. In the PC version, he is contemplating giving a present to his girlfriend. While he is working, he finds a can full of a strange substance sitting on a table. He drinks it, but it tastes horrible. Some of it drips on the floor, causing some screws on the floor to come to life. Depending on the version, Ed either disposes of the can out a garbage chute or he accidentally drops it into an open hole caused by the screws opening up.

The can falls to Earth and lands near a man named Grögh. He notices the drink’s mutagenic properties when it transforms the surrounding environment; when he drinks it, he is pleased with the results. When Ed’s superiors find out what happened and discover that it was Ed’s fault, he is ordered to clean up the mess he made.

Ed is to travel to Earth to retrieve the can, so that the scientists on the ship can make an antidote for the liquid. With the help of the doc and his daughter, Suzy, Ed gathers the parts required for a machine that will catapult him to Grögh's Kingdom. Ed enters Grögh's kingdom and confronts Grögh, who is driving a fearsome robot; in the end, Ed defeats Grögh and gets the can back from him.

Characters

Agent Ed : Ed is an alien; good but a little bit stupid. He has to repair his disaster. He is voiced by David Gasman.

Suzy : She is the daughter of the Doc and Ed's girlfriend. She is helping Ed in his adventure.

The Doc : Once free, the Doc helps Ed to go to Grögh's Castle to get his can back by inventing a machine.

Grögh : Grögh is the main antagonist of the game. A former drunkard viking who, after getting himself evicted from a bar for not paying his tab, managed to drink the Tonic and thus as a result, he is now the master around the world, stating that from then on, drinks are on him, and everyone would get a taste, and Ed must stop his reign.

Agent Xyz : Another character who helps Ed; this is a newspaper guy who explains to Ed how to get through his adventure.

Info

Tonic Trouble is a 3D platforming video game by Ubisoft Montreal, based on the Rayman series. The story follows the main character, Ed, after a magic potion spills on the Earth and causes vegetables to become living killers. The game was received poorly; critics cite poor controls, a wordy exposition, and sloppy graphics (on the N64 version). The N64 version of the game is a port of the PC version with noticeable differences, such as a substantially different opening due to the lack of processing power needed to render cutscenes, and different music in certain places. The game was slated to be released before Rayman 2: The Great Escape but eventually was released months after. The Game Boy Color version was only released in Europe.

It was released on the Game Boy Color, Nintendo 64 and PC.

Additionally, a beta version for the PC was released as Tonic Trouble: Special Edition, published by Guillemot. This version featured very different level designs and control scheme. It was given away by Compaq with new computers running Windows 98 in parts of Europe. A few differences are the additional guards not encountered in the Retail Version, larger and more open level designs, silver spades instead of thermometers for health power ups, and the lack of a final boss.


http://www.gamefaqs.com/n64/199055-tonic-trouble
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tonic_Trouble
