Description

Smile, you beast. It's the world's fastest multi-player N64 racing, geared for people who love to cheat! Oh yeah. This baby's got it all! Ten wild cars. Five white-knuckle tracks. A beautifully giddy selection of wicked hair-pin turns, roller coaster hills and secret, shifty shortcuts. Plus: 6 full vocal BGM tunes. Challenging Mirror Racing Mode. The world's worst weather conditions. And: IT'S OKAY TO CHEAT! Once you get ahead you stay ahead by forcing the competition into interactive objects like traffic cones and road signs. Waaay cool. The one and only Top Gear Overdrive. Don't get mad. Get evil!

Gameplay

In the main mode of play, the player races through six seasons, each season containing more races from more tracks, and with faster cars competing.

At the beginning of the race the player would start at the back of the grid, at the start line. Computer players at the front of the grid would often start a third of the way around the first lap. Players started with three charges of nitrous oxide, which were used to give the player a temporary speed boost.

While racing, the player could pick up two power-ups: nitrous oxide and cash. The nitrous oxide could be used straight away, while the cash was added to the winnings at the end of the race and was used for buying upgrades to the player's car.

Shortcuts were available on each track, and often the use of these decided the outcome of the races, particularly in later seasons.

At the end of each race the player would be presented with a screen to allow for various upgrades to their car, such as to acceleration and handling. The player was also able to change their car for a better (or worse) vehicle and could buy extra nitrous oxide to use in the next race.

At the end of the season, if the player had placed fourth or better in all of that season's tracks, they were allowed to progress to the next season.


http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Top_Gear_Overdrive
http://www.gamefaqs.com/n64/199067-top-gear-overdrive
