Description

This is it! The fast-paced, intense snowboarding action you've been waiting for! TWISTED EDGE: EXTREME SNOWBOARDING! The sickest tricks, the biggest air and runs you've only dreamt about 'til now. No more searching for the best ride ever, grab your controller and prepare to get twisted! Loaded with riders, boards, and secrets - each with their own unique qualities. There's lots available, but only if you aren't slackin' off in your ridin' skills! Performance is everything and it pays off in TWISTED EDGE!

Development

Twisted Edge Snowboarding' was announced on June 9, 1997. Many gamers at the time were excited to hear that the company behind Top Gear Rally (the successful racing simulation) was going to be Boss Studios, and were to make their second video game for the Nintendo 64. Kemco was to publish the game, but Midway acquired the rights to publish the game on October 13, 1997. On January 22, 1998, the game was delayed for 4 months. The game was finally released on November 10, 1998 in the United States.

Reception

Critics panned the game. Reviewers were calling the game a "Huge Let Down". Reviewers criticized Boss for delaying the game for 4 months to make the game a "Better Game As Possible". By pushing back the title, "1080" was released in between Twisted's delay, which sold more game cartridges and is now being called as a "Classic". Everything about the game was mediocre. Music was pleasurable although the Gameplay was frustrating to play and the Graphics was not like 1080's standards.

Twisted Edge Extreme Snowboarding is the third snowboarding game released for the Nintendo 64 after Snowboard Kids then 1080° Snowboarding. It is known in Japan as King Hill 64: Extreme Snowboarding. While Twisted Edge was not very well received commercially or critically, it covered the snowboard niche between Cool Boarders 2 and 1080° Snowboarding by focusing on tricks (unlike 1080°, which focused on racing), and providing a more intuitive control system than that found in Cool Boarders 2.




http://www.gamefaqs.com/n64/199134-twisted-edge-extreme-snowboarding
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Twisted_Edge_Extreme_Snowboarding
