Description

Take on "The Great One" again in this hot sequel to the smash hit voted "Best Sports Game" of '96! With more great features, such as new hidden teams and improved, hard-hitting AI, Gretzky '98 packs a wallop! Includes all 26 teams, each with 17 available players on their actual NHL teams, and you can make player trades or line manipulations to create a powerhouse team of your own. Play 3-on-3, 4-on-4 or 5-on-5 games on either arcade or regulation size hockey rinks, plus exhibition games, full 82 game seasons or a best-of-seven playoff series with full statistic saving capability.


Gameplay

Gameplay consists of two basic options: Arcade and Simulation. Although the graphics and earlobe vary little between the two, other changes have the effect of changing the chemistry and intensity of gameplay between the two options. The gamer has the ability to customize period length, fatigue (on/off), line changes, fighting (on/off), penalties (simulation only), rink size (arcade only), puck-streak (on/off), and camera angle.

    * Simulation Mode

Simulation mode is designed to emulate the real game of hockey. Players may play five, four, or three to a side, depending on preference. Recognition of penalties, off-sides, and icing are all optional, but two-line pass is not considered. Period length can be selected between 5, 10, 15, and 20 minutes.

    * Arcade Mode

During the Arcade mode checking, hooking, and tripping are more violent. Fights occur with greater frequency, and penalties are disregarded entirely. Additionally, arcade mode sees the introduction of a "power shot", which a player may utilize to light the net on fire after a goal. Arcade mode tends to be more exciting.


Trivia

The game gained widespread criticism for several perceived shortcomings. The game was perceived to be crude and unfitting as a pure hockey simulator, leaving many enthusiasts disappointed, but many arcade fans delighted.


http://www.gamefaqs.com/n64/574500-wayne-gretzkys-3d-hockey-98
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wayne_Gretzky%27s_3D_Hockey_%2798
