Destroy different enemy tanks, while trying to keep them away from your base. When you have destroyed 20 enemy tanks you advance to the next level with different layout. In each level there's some obstacles which you can use to your advantage. Obstacles include red bricks which you can shoot out of your way, silver bricks which are highly armored, water and ice. You start the game with a basic tank, which you can power up to better one little by little.

The game includes a construction mode, so you can make your own levels when you have played through all the 35 original levels.

http://www.mobygames.com/game/nes/battle-city
This hack changes Battle City into a vertical-scrolling shooter.

http://www.romhacking.net/hacks/410/
Very sophisticated hack of Battle City. The game begins as usual tanks action with Binary Land's gimmick, but its gameplay keeps being fresh until the very last level. There are stages with various handicaps, timer racings, pure puzzles and even stealth action.

The game was greatly reprogrammed, now there's twice more code than was in original ROM. There are new map objects, better AI, boss stages, new music, particle effects and physics tweaks.

You should see the game trailer here - http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fZe7q6Ki42g

The game consists of 6 chapters - 
1. Reverse mode - simple tutorial on game mechanics

2. Impulse mode - learning new quirks + puzzles

3. Dual challenge - combining everything you've learnt

4. VG history - mimicking classic video games

5. Postmodern Age - some weird stuff + memes

6. Superplay - 7 steps of learning TASing

http://www.romhacking.net/hacks/569/
This hack turns Battle City into a semi-platformer, there is no jumping but you run on platforms, climb ladders, and shoot at enemy robots.

http://www.romhacking.net/hacks/283/
Destroy different enemy tanks, while trying to keep them away from your base. When you have destroyed 20 enemy tanks you advance to the next level with different layout. In each level there's some obstacles which you can use to your advantage. Obstacles include red bricks which you can shoot out of your way, silver bricks which are highly armored, water and ice. You start the game with a basic tank, which you can power up to better one little by little.

The game includes a construction mode, so you can make your own levels when you have played through all the 35 original levels.

Nintendo Vs. System - 
The Nintendo Vs. System is a coin-operated video game platform designed for two-player competitive play using the VS. UniSystem or VS. DualSystem, arcade system boards based on the Nintendo Entertainment System. Many of these stand-up or sit-down arcade machines had two screens and controls joined at an angle. These games were arcade ports of home video games for the Nintendo Entertainment System, thus they could be sold cheaply to arcades in the late 1980s.

Hardware - 
The Vs. System was designed primarily as a kit to retrofit Donkey Kong, Donkey Kong Jr., Popeye, and Mario Bros. machines. Being as such, they require the same special monitor that these coin-ops used. These monitors use inverse voltage levels for their video signals as compared to most arcade monitors. Commercially available converters allowed one to use any standard open frame monitor with the game.

Almost all the games on the Vs. System ran on identical hardware, with the notable exception that four special PPUs (video chips) were also made, each containing a different palette (each of which appears to arrange the colors completely randomly). Most boards could be switched to a new game simply by swapping the program ROMs, though the appropriate PPU would also have to be used - if not, the game would appear with incorrect colors. Several of the later Vs. games employed further measures of protection by using special PPUs which swapped pairs of I/O registers and/or returned special data from normally unimplemented regions of memory - attempts to run these games in other Vs. systems would result in the game failing to even start.

There were some dedicated Vs. double cabinets produced which looked like two games butted together at an angle. A single motherboard powered both games on those models.

A steel sit down cabinet for the Dualsystem, nicknamed the "red tent" due to its upper portion's resemblance to a pup tent, allowed play for up to four players similtaneously. This cabinet used the same motherboard as the double cabinet referred to above.

Differences Between Vs. System and NES Versions - 
Sometimes the games were different from their NES versions. For example, Vs. Super Mario Bros. is considerably more difficult than Super Mario Bros; some of these levels are in the Japanese Disk System version of Super Mario Bros. 2. The graphics were also different from their NES counterparts; for example, Vs. Duck Hunt had more details and animation sequences than its console counterpart. Vs. Duck Hunt also contained a bonus stage which was notable for allowing players to shoot the dog who would normally obtain the ducks if the player shot them, and who would also laugh at the player, should the player miss the ducks.

http://www.mobygames.com/game/nes/battle-city
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nintendo_Vs._System
