It's only you and an ice hammer as you make your way to the top of the mountain! If you can break through 8 levels of treacherous arctic ice, you'll reach the top of the mountain. But watch out - the Nitpicker, condors and Polar Bears don't want you up there. And they've got a bag of tricks that will block your rise to the top. There are 32 challenging peaks to scale - face them alone or with a friend.

--From the NES Ice Climber instruction manual.

Overview - 
Two ice climbers, Nana and Popo have heard of magical vegetables on the mountain tops. So they went off in search of them, while fighting off Yetis, birds, and whatnot.

Directions - 
Fight monsters and break blocks with mallets to get to the top, and collect vegetables to gain bonus points. Play with another person for a better playing experience.

Controls - 
A Button - Jump
B Button - Use mallet
Start Button - Pause/Unpause
Select Button - Choose One or Two Players

Hints - 
Infinite Lives
In level two, if you hit the block that is colored pink, then you will hear a ringing sound and you will have infinite lives. 

Reviewer - Adrian
http://consoleclassix.com/nes/ice_climber.html
If you can break through 8 levels of treacherous arctic ice, you'll reach the top of the mountain! But watch out. The Nitpickers, Condors, and Ploar Bears don't want you up there. And they've got a bag of tricks that will test every ounce of your strength and courage. Are you going to let them stop you? No way! There are 32 mountains to choose from and endless thrills as you fight these arctic creatures alone or with a friend, and ascend to the top of the mountain in ICE CLIMBER!

Nintendo Vs. System - 
The Nintendo Vs. System is a coin-operated video game platform designed for two-player competitive play using the VS. UniSystem or VS. DualSystem, arcade system boards based on the Nintendo Entertainment System. Many of these stand-up or sit-down arcade machines had two screens and controls joined at an angle. These games were arcade ports of home video games for the Nintendo Entertainment System, thus they could be sold cheaply to arcades in the late 1980s.

Hardware - 
The Vs. System was designed primarily as a kit to retrofit Donkey Kong, Donkey Kong Jr., Popeye, and Mario Bros. machines. Being as such, they require the same special monitor that these coin-ops used. These monitors use inverse voltage levels for their video signals as compared to most arcade monitors. Commercially available converters allowed one to use any standard open frame monitor with the game.

Almost all the games on the Vs. System ran on identical hardware, with the notable exception that four special PPUs (video chips) were also made, each containing a different palette (each of which appears to arrange the colors completely randomly). Most boards could be switched to a new game simply by swapping the program ROMs, though the appropriate PPU would also have to be used - if not, the game would appear with incorrect colors. Several of the later Vs. games employed further measures of protection by using special PPUs which swapped pairs of I/O registers and/or returned special data from normally unimplemented regions of memory - attempts to run these games in other Vs. systems would result in the game failing to even start.

There were some dedicated Vs. double cabinets produced which looked like two games butted together at an angle. A single motherboard powered both games on those models.

A steel sit down cabinet for the Dualsystem, nicknamed the "red tent" due to its upper portion's resemblance to a pup tent, allowed play for up to four players similtaneously. This cabinet used the same motherboard as the double cabinet referred to above.

Differences Between Vs. System and NES Versions - 
Sometimes the games were different from their NES versions. For example, Vs. Super Mario Bros. is considerably more difficult than Super Mario Bros; some of these levels are in the Japanese Disk System version of Super Mario Bros. 2. The graphics were also different from their NES counterparts; for example, Vs. Duck Hunt had more details and animation sequences than its console counterpart. Vs. Duck Hunt also contained a bonus stage which was notable for allowing players to shoot the dog who would normally obtain the ducks if the player shot them, and who would also laugh at the player, should the player miss the ducks.

http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/nes/home/579354.html
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nintendo_Vs._System
