You wake up on a wintry morning and decide to go skiing. You then get in your car and drive to the slopes. When you arrive, the person at the ski shop tells about the upcoming ski competition. You went ahead and registered. Finally, the day has come for you to test your skills against other experienced skiers.

The first thing you see when you load the game is the title screen with the usual copyright info. Press Start and you get to choose the number of players and the mountain that you want to challenge. The scarier-sounding the name, the more difficult the peak is. Once you press start, the map of the area appears and the game starts. You first start off on the qualifying round, which lets you improve your skills for later parts. One thing, you have to make it to the end before time is up. Remember to watch out for trees and other skiers.

I really like this game. The controls are simple to remember and are smooth. Another thing I like is the game is based on time trials. The only thing that bothers me is that a lot of things get in my when when I'm playing.

Directions - 
Race against the time while skiing down three slopes. 

Controls - 
A Button - Jump
B Button - Jump
Start Button - Pause Game
Select Button - Select Peak

Hints - 
Prevent Yourself from Falling Down
Press Down right after you flip up in the air. 

Reviewer - MethodOne
http://consoleclassix.com/nes/slalom.html
The freezing wind cracks against your face. The tension mounts. Suddenly you're off! Speeding through the gates on one of Nintendo's 24 snow-covered runs. Welcome to SLALOM! Where you feel every bump, every jump, every death defying turn, just like in a real slalom race. Along the way you'll dodge other competitors, trees, sledders - even snowmen -as you speed down mountains like Snowy Hill, Mount Nasty and Steep Peak in a heart-pounding race against the clock. Challenge the moguls and execute trick jumps. You'll find SLALOM just as thrilling and dangerous as the real thing!

Nintendo Vs. System - 
The Nintendo Vs. System is a coin-operated video game platform designed for two-player competitive play using the VS. UniSystem or VS. DualSystem, arcade system boards based on the Nintendo Entertainment System. Many of these stand-up or sit-down arcade machines had two screens and controls joined at an angle. These games were arcade ports of home video games for the Nintendo Entertainment System, thus they could be sold cheaply to arcades in the late 1980s.

Hardware - 
The Vs. System was designed primarily as a kit to retrofit Donkey Kong, Donkey Kong Jr., Popeye, and Mario Bros. machines. Being as such, they require the same special monitor that these coin-ops used. These monitors use inverse voltage levels for their video signals as compared to most arcade monitors. Commercially available converters allowed one to use any standard open frame monitor with the game.

Almost all the games on the Vs. System ran on identical hardware, with the notable exception that four special PPUs (video chips) were also made, each containing a different palette (each of which appears to arrange the colors completely randomly). Most boards could be switched to a new game simply by swapping the program ROMs, though the appropriate PPU would also have to be used - if not, the game would appear with incorrect colors. Several of the later Vs. games employed further measures of protection by using special PPUs which swapped pairs of I/O registers and/or returned special data from normally unimplemented regions of memory - attempts to run these games in other Vs. systems would result in the game failing to even start.

There were some dedicated Vs. double cabinets produced which looked like two games butted together at an angle. A single motherboard powered both games on those models.

A steel sit down cabinet for the Dualsystem, nicknamed the "red tent" due to its upper portion's resemblance to a pup tent, allowed play for up to four players similtaneously. This cabinet used the same motherboard as the double cabinet referred to above.

Differences Between Vs. System and NES Versions - 
Sometimes the games were different from their NES versions. For example, Vs. Super Mario Bros. is considerably more difficult than Super Mario Bros; some of these levels are in the Japanese Disk System version of Super Mario Bros. 2. The graphics were also different from their NES counterparts; for example, Vs. Duck Hunt had more details and animation sequences than its console counterpart. Vs. Duck Hunt also contained a bonus stage which was notable for allowing players to shoot the dog who would normally obtain the ducks if the player shot them, and who would also laugh at the player, should the player miss the ducks.

http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/nes/home/587628.html
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nintendo_Vs._System
