Blue Mario Bros III - Mario and Luigi get a new set of blue threads to wear, as well as an entirely new Super Mario Bros. 3-esqe adventure to go on.

http://www.derok.net/nes-roms/super-mario-bros-3
The levels in this new Super Mario Bros. 3 are vastly different from the original game and feel like a completely new experience! Levels don't start out terribly difficult, but get tricky later on, though they never become unfair. Secrets are strewn throughout the many levels, including new levels for the White Mushroom Houses, with new coin requirements, and the hidden whistle.

http://www.derok.net/nes-roms/super-mario-bros-3
Best hack ever

Easily the best ROM hack I have ever played. Most Rom hacks are more of the same, which is cool because I usually play because I liked the original. This, however, really feel like an evolved game. Like Super Mario Brothers 3 Part 2.

The Worlds all have a completely new theme. A couple old themes are recycled, like the ice world and desert world, but they have a new feel to them. The giant world is also recycled, but in a really cool way.

The most major change is the new power-ups and the fact that you can switch powers on the fly during the level. This creates totally new strategies. It's really sweet to be able to fly with a raccoon tail over a difficult platforming section and then quickly switch to fireballs to blast something on the other side. The new power-ups added to the game are also cool, particularly the invisible cap which grants temporary (limited) invincibility.

New weather effects are neat to switch it up, but the snow is really annoying and I'd usually just suicide instead of trying to play through snow.

My biggest critisism is that the backgrounds lack variety, mostly because of the weather thing. If you've seen one level in the rain, you've seen them all. This is a really minor issue, and didn't take away from the experience very much at all.

Read the instructions that come with the ROM or you'll almost definitly miss some of the cool new features - because when you get to about World 4 and figure out you need to find a key in each world you're going to wish you read that thing.

Some of the levels are particularly challenging. Don't give up.

Description - 
As of 2006, this is hailed as one of the greatest NES hacks of all time. This Super Mario Brothers 3 hack changes the game right down to the core by tweaking the actual game engine itself!

Aside from the 'typical' graphics and text changes, this hack alters musical melodies, a full line up of all new levels, new power ups, new abilities for Mario, and even new enemies! When I say new, I'm not talking about changed graphics; I'm talking about completely new power ups and monsters. Money mushrooms, invisible Mario, time stopping potions, Kuribo shoes in any level that don't disappear, shy guys that create projectiles, heat seeking bullet bills, and others are just the beginning of the changes made to this game.

On top of that, you have random weather patterns on every stage, boss battles on every stage, and infinite lives, so your coins go to more useful purposes. They will be used to buy items from Toad's house and get some level exits to appear. Let's not forget stored, and switchable, power ups such as those found in Super Mario World!

This description really doesn't do this hack justice. It's certainly impressive to say the least. Just download it and try it out! It's definitely one of the most advanced SMB3 hacks to date and pretty darn fun as well!

Reviewer - mr type 4
http://www.romhacking.net/hacks/70/
Some usual day isn't so usual after all. This game features enemies from Zelda, Metroid, and Kirby, new power-ups, and a brand-new secret coin system. And yes, that is a fire-ball-chucking Raccoon Mario below.

http://www.derok.net/nes-roms/super-mario-bros-3
While Mario is romping through the Mushroom Kingdom's royal water fountains one day, he is witness to a mysterious phenomenon - the fish from around the kingdom begin to take flight! It's up to the Mario Brothers to find out what is responsible (I wonder...) and stop it before the local fish markets are all dried up! Note that this is a "mini-hack" -- a novelty/concept hack that is complete and spawns only one world.

http://www.derok.net/nes-roms/super-mario-bros-3
A level edit project to make Super Mario Bros 3 more challenging, while also changing the story, as well as some of the graphics.

http://www.zophar.net/hacks/nes/super-mario-bros-32/Super-Mario-Bros-3-Challenge-336.html
The Mushroom Kingdom has been a peaceful place thanks to the brave deeds of Mario and Luigi. The Mushroom Kingdom forms an entrance to the Mushroom World where all is not well. Bowser has sent his 7 children to make mischief as they please in the normally peaceful Mushroom World. They stile the royal magic wands from each country in the Mushroom World and used them to turn their kings into animals. Mario and Luigi must recover the royal magic wands from Bowser's 7 kids and return the kings to their true forms. "Goodbye and good luck!," said the Princess and Toad as Mario and Luigi set off on their journey deep into the Mushroom World.

"We took 7 wands from the 7 kings. Each of us has one. Our father has instructed us to protect the wands."

--From the NES Super Mario Bros. 3 instruction manual.

Overview - 
It wasn't long ago when Mario, Luigi, Toad and Princess Toadstool had set off on their exciting adventure to rescue the Subcon World. The characters have now arrived back at the Mushroom Kingdom, and it seems that everything is remaining peaceful...until one fateful day...

Bowser invades again! But this time it's not the Mushroom Kingdom he's after. It's the Mushroom WORLD he wants! And this time he's brought his 7 Kids (known as the Koopalings) to help him control the world! Bowser and his 7 children, Iggy, Lemmy, Wendy, Morton, Roy, Larry and Ludwig Von invade the 8 kingdoms in the Mushroom World and steal each kingdom's magic wand from its holder, that kingdom's king. The Koopalings turn the kings into animals using the wands, and havoc is eventually wreaked again among the Mushroom World. But all hope is not lost...

Enter Mario and Luigi, who bear no grudge against Bowser and his children. The two brothers are now setting off to get the wands back, and kick Bowser and the Koopalings out of the Mushroom World for good! So, it's up to you to control Mario and Luigi, and help them venture through 8 worlds and restore peace to the Mushroom World.

Mario and Luigi now walk out of the gates of the Mushroom Kingdom, into the wide, open world. "Goodbye!" Princess Toadstool and Toad shout as they wave to the brothers, who are now ready for their biggest adventure yet!

Super Mario Bros. 3 was a monumental game for Nintendo. They decided to go back to the roots. In other words, they made it a lot more like Super Mario Bros. 1. An upgrade to the graphics and the addition of the ability to fly made for a great game. Super Mario Bros. 3 was the first Super Mario game to feature the overland map where you can sort of choose your own path. This game also debuted the ability to fight your opponent for the next turn. When your opponent is walking by your square, you can push your button and pull them into a Mario Bros. style battle for the next turn. You can also steal his cards in this mode. Super Mario Bros. 3 is a very fun and popular game, we have had to go out and buy more copies of this game several times. Enjoy!

Directions - 
Lead Mario through the Mushroom Kingdom, restoring kings along the way to save the Princess. Classic Mario action with new powerups. Mushroom still makes to become Super Mario, but after becoming Super Mario you can become many other forms. If you grab a flower you become Fire Mario(Shoot fireballs with B), with a Leaf you become Racoon Mario. Rare suits (Tanooki, Hammer Bros., and Frog) do not require you to be any Mario form. Tanooki Mario can turn into a statue by pressing down and B, Hammer Mario can throw Hammers with B and if ducking is immune to fireball attacks, and Frog Mario helps a lot in the water, but will only slow you down on land. Star Mario is invincible.

Racoon Mario and Tanooki Mario are the only Mario transformations that can fly. To fly, hold down the B button and run across a flat surface until your P meter charges up. Jump and tap A to fly now. After a few seconds, you will lose your flight. You can now slowly lower yourself by tapping A.

Enemies with shells(not including Spikeys) can be used. Just jump on them once to put them inside their shell. Then hold B and walk into them. Release B to let them go.

Unlike Super Mario Bros. 1(And JPN 2) Mario will go back to Super Mario if he's hit when he is in any other form besides Super and Regular. A welcome change! 

Controls - 
A Button - Jump
B Button - Run/Grab
Start Button - Pause
Select Button - Select between 1 and 2 players

Hints - 
Play in Background
To play in the Background, hold down when you are on a white 'block' (Next to the first koopa troopa in level 1). You will go into the background. In level 3 you can use this technique to get a warp whistle.

White Airships
White Airships are full of coins, and are tricky to get. They only appear on Odd Levels (1-3-5 etc...). You need to complete the level with a factor of 11 coins. Also, your score must match your coins 'tens' place. So if you have 77 coins, and end with a score of 345,074, the white Air Ship should appear.

White Mushroom Houses
To get the Secret Toad Houses, you must collect a certain amount of coins in certain levels. There is one in each world except for 8
World 1 - Level 4 (44 coins)
World 2 - Level 2 (30 coins)
World 3 - Level 8 (42? coins)
World 4 - Level 2 (22 coins)
World 5 - Level 5 (28 coins)
World 6 - Level 7 (78 coins)
World 7 - Level 2 (42 coins)

Super Mario Bros. Battle!
To play a variation of the original Mario Bros. game, you have to be in a 2 player game. Go to the second player's spot(It should be a small circle with an L or an M) and press A.

Reviewer - Adrian
http://consoleclassix.com/nes/super_mario_bros_3.html
Super Mario Bros 3 - 2nd Run is the latest of my "Level only" hacks. Building on what I have learned from my previous hack, SMB3-2R is in many ways even better then my first attempt. The same commitment has gone into this hack to make it a great game to play. I have invested even more time into this hack then my previous one, and it shows -- at least this is what many people who have tried it have told me. Give this a try, I don't believe you will be disappointed.

http://www.geocities.com/recovery1ca/smb3.htm
This is one of those Super Mario Bros. games that you never get tired of playing. The way the levels are designed are so good that you'll want to play it all the way to the end. The designer has put his whole heart in making this hack very good and it shows right from the beginning. So what are you waiting for? Play this hack and get your Super Mario Bros. 3 fix!

http://www.derok.net/nes-roms/super-mario-bros-3
