Super Loco Spoof! 2 is the sequel to last year's SMB hack called Super Loco Spoof! This hack was given to me by Rockman incase I wanted to finish it, this is the hack that got me motivated to ROM Hack again. Please read the readme for more information in the zip file.

Thank you for playing the hack. :)

http://www.romhacking.net/hacks/307/
One evening, Mario had a strange dream. He dreamt of a long, long stairway leading up to a door. As soon as the door opened, he was confronted with a world he had never seen before spreading out as far as his eyes could see. When he strained his ears to listen, he heard a faint voice saying "Welcome to 'Subcon', the land of dreams. We have been cursed by Wart and we are completely under his evil spell. We have been awaiting your arrival. Please defeat Wart and return Subcon to its natural state. The curse Wart has put on you in the real world will not have any effect upon you here. Remember, Wart hates vegetables. Please help us!" At the same time this was heard, a bolt of lightning flashed before Mario's eyes. Stunned, Mario lost his footing and tumbled upside down. He awoke with a start to find himself sitting up in his bed. To clear his head, Mario talked to Luigi, Toad and the Princess about the strange dream he had. They decide to go to a nearby mountain for a picnic.

After arriving at the picnic area and looking at the scenery, they see a small cave nearby. When they enter this cave, to their great surprise, there's a stairway leading up, up and up. It is exactly like the one Mario saw in his dream. They all walk together up thew stairs and at the top, find a door just like the one in Mario's dream. When Mario and his friends, in fear, open the door, to their surprise, the world that Mario saw in his dream spreads out before them!

--From the NES Super Mario Bros. 2 instruction manual.

Overview - 
Super Mario Bros. 2 was a pretty fun game. It boasted a good many changes from the original. For instance, in this one you can choose to play as Mario, Luigi, Princess, or Toad. Another big difference was the ability to gain more than just two hit points. In this game you could get up to four. Personally, I didn't like Super Mario Bros. 2 as much as the original, but I think it still did pretty well. I'm glad they went back to something more like the original for Super Mario Bros. 3. If you like Mario games, be sure to try Super Mario Bros. 2.

Directions - 
Pick up vegetables to hurl at enemies. The POW blocks destroy every enemy on screen! While exploring and hurling vegetables, you'll probably come across Magic Potions. By dropping it, you'll activate a door. Go inside to appear in a darker, reversed world of the world you're in now! You might also find a Mushroom to enhance your energy bar by 1, depending on where you place the potion. Be careful, though, it only works until you beat the level! You'll come across a boss or Birdo at the end of each level, so be ready!

Controls - A Button - Jump
B Button - Pick up or drop an enemy/item/vegetable, dig sand, stop Bonus Round slots
Start Button - Select character, pause/unpause
Select Button - No use

Hints - 
Characters
When choosing which character you want to use, remember that Mario is the all around guy, Luigi is known for his jumping ability, Princess can float, and Toad can pull things out of the ground the fastest.

Reviewer - Adrian
http://consoleclassix.com/nes/super_mario_bros_2.html
The Super Mario Bros. 2 Challenge is a remake of the classic NES game. The main feature of this game, like the title suggests, is that it is much more challenging.

http://www.derok.net/roms/games/super-mario-bros.-2-roms.html
This is a hack of the original SMB2 game with new levels. The idea behind this hack is that it's the same SMB2 game we all love, but with entirely new levels. Game difficulty is easy to moderate but rises from moderate to nightmare for worlds 6 and 7. Ain't that nice?

http://www.romhacking.net/hacks/180/
