No information online about this Unlicensed game.  ~Rx
TETRIS is a dynamic puzzle that seems easy enough - Rotate and flip moving geometric blocks into unbroken rows. When you completely fill up the bottom row, it disappears from the screen and your score rises. When enough rows vanish, the blocks descend faster and faster. Nothing to it, right? Wrong! When you can't find the way to make the pieces fit together and more blocks tumble down to clog your screen, you'll wish you had ten hands - and ten brains. Warning - Although TETRIS may be great food for thought, it's so much fun, it's positively addictive. So don't forget to eat something to fuel your body (maybe apple pie?).

http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/nes/home/587696.html
TETRIS is a new type of puzzle game from the Soviet Union that tests your reflexes. It's really simple to play. Seven different shaped blocks fall down the game field one after the other. The object of the game is to keep the blocks from piling up to the top of the game field. To do this, you can move blocks to the left and right, and rotate them as they fall. If you can completely fill in one horizontal line, that line disappears and you get points. If the blocks pile up to the top of the game field, then that's the end of the game. TETRIS is simple, easy-to-understand, but difficult to drag yourself away from!

TETRIS originally came from the word "tetra" meaning the number 4. By rearranging four squares, you can make seven different shapes which are the pieces used in this game.

--From the NES Tetris instruction manual.

Overview - 
When this game was released in 1989, it became an instant classic, along with Pac-Man, Super Mario Bros. and many others! The Russian-themed music got into everyone's head, and people were playing Tetris even in their sleep. A huge hit that started a new era in video gaming.

Directions - 
In this classic game, you must get through as many lines as possible! There are two modes - A and B. In Mode A, if you destroy 10 lines, you move up one level. In Mode B, you must destroy 25 lines! The Tetris pieces come in many shapes and forms, so use different tactics to prevail!

Controls - 
A Button - Rotate pieces to the left
B Button - Rotate pieces to the right
Start Button - Pause/Unpause, make selections
Select Button - Hide preview of next piece

Hints - 
Start With 4 Free Lines on B-Type Game
Start the game and wait for the demo. When the computer eliminates the four lines at once (makes a tetris), and the screen begins to flash, press start. Now start a B-type game. The screen will flash, and you will start with extra points plus 4 less lines to eliminate.

Warp 10 levels ahead
Select the level you want to go to and hold A, then press START, you will be 10 levels ahead.

Reviewer - LinkOfHyrule
http://consoleclassix.com/nes/tetris.html
No information online about this hack.  ~Rx
Your pulse quickens. Beams, boxes, zig-zags and "L" shaped building blocks drop relentlessly down a narrow passage. You quickly spin, shift, and align the shapes then slide them in for a perfect fit. It's challenging and the pace is demanding. But satisfaction comes as you position each block neatly into place. Start at new heights for a tougher contest. Pick the music and set your pace from 20 progressive skill levels.

Nintendo Vs. System - 
The Nintendo Vs. System is a coin-operated video game platform designed for two-player competitive play using the VS. UniSystem or VS. DualSystem, arcade system boards based on the Nintendo Entertainment System. Many of these stand-up or sit-down arcade machines had two screens and controls joined at an angle. These games were arcade ports of home video games for the Nintendo Entertainment System, thus they could be sold cheaply to arcades in the late 1980s.

Hardware - 
The Vs. System was designed primarily as a kit to retrofit Donkey Kong, Donkey Kong Jr., Popeye, and Mario Bros. machines. Being as such, they require the same special monitor that these coin-ops used. These monitors use inverse voltage levels for their video signals as compared to most arcade monitors. Commercially available converters allowed one to use any standard open frame monitor with the game.

Almost all the games on the Vs. System ran on identical hardware, with the notable exception that four special PPUs (video chips) were also made, each containing a different palette (each of which appears to arrange the colors completely randomly). Most boards could be switched to a new game simply by swapping the program ROMs, though the appropriate PPU would also have to be used - if not, the game would appear with incorrect colors. Several of the later Vs. games employed further measures of protection by using special PPUs which swapped pairs of I/O registers and/or returned special data from normally unimplemented regions of memory - attempts to run these games in other Vs. systems would result in the game failing to even start.

There were some dedicated Vs. double cabinets produced which looked like two games butted together at an angle. A single motherboard powered both games on those models.

A steel sit down cabinet for the Dualsystem, nicknamed the "red tent" due to its upper portion's resemblance to a pup tent, allowed play for up to four players similtaneously. This cabinet used the same motherboard as the double cabinet referred to above.

Differences Between Vs. System and NES Versions - 
Sometimes the games were different from their NES versions. For example, Vs. Super Mario Bros. is considerably more difficult than Super Mario Bros; some of these levels are in the Japanese Disk System version of Super Mario Bros. 2. The graphics were also different from their NES counterparts; for example, Vs. Duck Hunt had more details and animation sequences than its console counterpart. Vs. Duck Hunt also contained a bonus stage which was notable for allowing players to shoot the dog who would normally obtain the ducks if the player shot them, and who would also laugh at the player, should the player miss the ducks.

http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/nes/data/563470.html
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nintendo_Vs._System
